Speaker 1  0:00  
Be a couple people late, and so we'll just get started. Okay? So we're kind of in the midst of really thinking about how time the customer is differentiated, right? And perhaps, like, I mean, we can, we've seen so many examples continuously examples. One example we'll think through as we get towards the end of session is something like Uber, right? So why do we use Uber? Because when you kind of pull up your app and you ask for a ride, you have an expectation that you would get it in, like a minute, right? And I travel a lot of teaching, and I typically take a flight out early morning, but I also like to sleep,

Speaker 1  1:02  
right? And the whole process, right? Like, if my flights at six, I know I can wake up at about 445 right, but that requires, like, very tight tolerances. If Uber misses one or two times, right, I might just stop using it, right? I say it's not working with the Uber. I'll just drive the vehicle and park and I have due process. And so the cost to kind of not be on diet can be really large. And hopefully we all appreciate that. We've seen this a few different times, and this issue comes up all the time in service businesses, like any sort of service business, right, has this sort of element of findings and kind of so that's one thing. The other side of this is that kind of variability impacts that timeline, right? So we were kind of playing around with JetBlue last time I want to kind of pick up on that, you know, in a second. And we saw that in the case of JetBlue, you know, even in times that are not super busy, right, this whole deicing nonsense can result in non trivial delays, and that's a situation where the variability is actually known in advance, right? We know that there's going to be six flights leaving at 6am and seven flights leaving at 7am and so on and so forth. The Uber situation is a little bit harder, right? Because the Uber situation, you have some general pattern, but there's a lot of unfair code, right? You know, imagine that there's a talk at MIT, and then all of a sudden, there's a bunch of people that get out of the coffee when I head home right, suddenly, like the proverbial bus that somebody was talking about, that pulls up in front of McDonald's, right? There's a whole bunch of people that are asking for a ride. And it may not be 1000s of people, right, but maybe 20 people. And that's sufficient variability to kind of throw things off, and you can't predict. And so the real questions I want to kind of grapple with today are a lot of the variability you need to deal with eventually, it's kind of unpredictable, right? So what do we do in dealing with unpredictable variables? How do we deal with unpredictable variability in a way that that's effective, right? That's effective for our customers, but at the same time, because that's kind of the plan I really have for the day to play. But I want to start with last time, a question I'd ask you guys to sort of think about, okay, so this question actually stems from sort of closing the loop and thinking about, look, ultimately, where in business to make money, right? So, so all this variability and efficiency, it's like irrelevant at some level, if it doesn't actually translate to something to do with the bottom line, right? And so I wanted to kind of close that loop, which at Blue, because I think it sort of gets us to sort of an interesting, an interesting conundrum, interesting sort of thought process. So here's the data I left you with on Wednesday. Okay, so just to remind you, just to remind you, right, this was kind of our baseline. Okay, so baseline was, there were a total of 58 flights leaving a day, right? But despite 58 flights leaving a day, that's two and a half per hour, right? Just think of it as 58 a day. On average, they experienced a day of one, one and a half, 1.7 hours. Okay? This was, this was in sort of, not whether that was really bad, but whether that required DS, I guess this was a delay of 1.7 hours. And then we said, well, you know, I asked you this question, like, Okay, what if we increase, you know, the load, the demand, by 36% right? So we go from, you know, 58 flights a day. So that's this to 75 flights a day. Okay, that's this. And so we ask ourselves, okay, if we go from 58 to 75 flights a day, right? You know what happens to delay? What we found, this is really interesting towards the end of last time was, even though that increase from 58 to 75 is modest, it's an increase of 36% the increase in delay is pretty dramatic, right? It more than doubles, right? Delay goes from 1.7 to 3.61 hours, right? Like so an increase of 110% okay? And then we said, and I didn't spend as much time on this, but you'd imagine it's the same process, if we went through that same process, right? If an increase in utilization can drive a big, you know, increase in delay, of a small increase in utilization can drive a big increase in delay, presumably a small decrease can also drive a big decrease in delay. It goes both ways, and indeed, that's what happened here, right? If we chose to invest in that your heart option, right? What would end up happening is our delay would go down. We'd still have a delay, but the delay would be 1.5 hours, okay? And the question I left you with was, okay, you know, we started the discussion last time with saying, oh, you know, JetBlue, they've gone through this Valentine's Day nonsense, blah, blah, blah, this and that, right? Should they be investing in extra deicing capacity, right? And we were kind of left with a weird conundrum in the sense that, okay, yeah, you know, from a brand perspective, there's a bit of an urgency to stay on time and so on and so forth. But we're in a competitive marketplace, right? If we have to de ice, other people need to de ice as well. It's not like we're the only people the ice and we run very, very tight margins. So it doesn't make sense to make this investment where it's $160,000 that I pay one time. So maybe we ignore that, but I paid a half million dollars every year, right? So the question I had for you was, and I'm curious about your thought process of thinking about, how should we do it? Inaccurate, what you're thinking,

Speaker 2  7:05  
Alex, waste proper information on the case, they lost about $30 million with this Friday central age. It means, if it happens one more time, it will cover all expenses,

Speaker 1  7:21  
right? But that's, that's a bit of a Dodge, right? Because this doesn't say anything about the Valentine's Day stuff, right? This is about, like, just regular operations like, this is like, on days where there's enough snow that you need to de ice a plane. It's not like this massive snow. So this is much more operational than the Valentine's Day thing, right? The Valentine's Day thing, I agree. It's like a black swan event. But that's another issue, right? This one, this is not necessarily going to help that, right? So that's, that's,

Speaker 3  7:47  
that's the point I'm making, James, so yes, I think you should do it, but I think the figure you should be looking at is very similar to the like seven seconds, like the McDonald's burger, paying like seven seconds translates to one or McDonald's 3% increase in market share and getting that similar factor.

Speaker 1  8:05  
Yeah. Okay, so I like what James is doing. James is saying, Look, I know the cost. I need to understand something about upside, right? That's your point. Good. So how would you go about thinking about what the upside is over here? How might we think about upside? So, and in fact, why would there be any concern, like, what's the mechanism to which that might be upside?

Unknown Speaker  8:28  
So rather than looking at just the upside,

Speaker 4  8:30  
you can look at the downside of not doing it. It could be a lot of business. You know, the big uproar when valentine day

Speaker 1  8:39  
afford another one cannot continue to lose business. Sure, because the business, sure. So you could put, like a qualitative number on the downside of not doing this, and you'd have to kind of just pull that out here at some at some level, yeah, yeah. But my point is that over here, it's a little hard to get a hold of that right, because basically you're in a competitive environment where everybody's de icing. It's not like you're the only person deicing, right? So how? So whether it's upside or downside, right? It cuts both ways. What is the source of value added or value taken away over here? Right? What's the mechanism Derek grew

Unknown Speaker  9:22  
out crew hours. So like, it's nice to work out Earhart, two hours per plate in delay, eight hours per crew per plate, 90 days

Speaker 1  9:38  
in the winter. Love it basically saying the mechanism is delayed, right? So if I, if I save time, I'm adding value. If I take away time, I'm taking away value, right? And you're mentioning one source of value, which is the crew, right? Basically, you know, hey, you know, maybe the crew times out, or something like that, right? Then. Me this sort of stuff works, right? The crew are on salaries. They're not kind of paid by the amount, so this thing is only going to cut if they end up timing out, right? And that's not really kind of happening. So if we went just by the crew thing, we have very hard cases right in this context, but I like the notion of delay, right? Who else is impacted, by the way, Cameron, customers. The customers, right? Yeah, the customer. So we're saving customers time, right? So what we're thinking about this is we're saving customers time. Customers, time is worth something, right? Presumably, our time is all worth something. So this is kind of one way of thinking about this right now, if we went about it this way, right? Let's think about how much, how much time we're saving. So we're saving, what is it here, right? The difference between 1.7 I'm sorry, between 3.61 and 1.7 that's a difference of 2.14 hours, right? So how much you know, time are we saving all over all these customers? Well, there's 2.14 hours per customer, right? There's 78 flights a day, right? There's about 100 passengers. Let's say on a flight. I'm kind of guesstimating that number. Okay, so let's say there's 100 passengers per flight. This happens 23 days a year in Boston, right? So 23 days a year you're going to have to do this sort of deicing this house, okay, so 23 days. And now the last number is, how much is an hour of a customer's time worth, right? So, so what do you want to put in over there? How much is an hour of a customer's time worth? What's an hour of your time worth? Yeah, that's one way of thinking about that's one reason any other any other thoughts a passenger's time worth, right? Michael, the cost

Speaker 2  11:57  
per ticket, like the delay, is too much. Where they choose not to fly the airline again. I see that's the number,

Unknown Speaker  12:04  
ah, so you're

Speaker 1  12:08  
kind of thinking about their lifetime value. I'm not even worrying about that. That's just going to make it juicy, right? I'm just sort of thinking about the here and now. It's like the hours I save just on that one point, right? And I'm asking, how much is like an hour of that time work? I'm just curious about what you guys think that number is. Michael, is it worth for the customers? Yes, for us, for the customer, you are a customer, how much does it work for you? I'm not asking about Jet Blue, right? So an important point, I don't care about Jet Blue here just yet, right? I'm basically asking, how much value do I give my customers? How much value am I generating if I free up this time? Right? That's, that's, that's what I'm asking, right? Like in any business, right? Like you want to ask yourself, if you're doing something, how much value do you generate? And after you think about how much value generate, you can ask the question, of, how much of that value can you now extract, right? So I'm asking the similar question, how

Unknown Speaker  13:07  
much value do we

Speaker 1  13:11  
generate understanding how much an hour of your time, $100 $1,000 all right?

Unknown Speaker  13:20  
I like $1,000

Speaker 1  13:23  
so the interesting thing is, the interesting thing is, the US government actually has an estimate. Okay, so the US government actually the Bureau of Labor Statistics, it puts down $1 number, saying this is how much an hour of your time is worth. And in fact, that figure gets used in a lot of different ways. It's a horrible lower bound. It's $37 it's $37 so it's almost certain that their customer's time is worth more than $37 an hour. But let's put in $37 right? And so if I put this in, this whole thing is what? This is, $14 million okay, okay, so here's what we're saying. We're saying, if we did your heart right, that investment in your heart generates $14 million of Customer Value, Customer surplus. Everybody remember that concept, customer surplus, like two weeks ago. But what is customer service? It's just how much value you generate for your customers, right? You're generating $14 million of value for your customer. Okay, now the question becomes, how much of that value can you extract for yourself, right? How much of that $14 million can you extract for yourself in the airline industry? And by the way, this is a function of pricing power, right? If you have zero pricing power, you can extract none of the account, none of the value. But airlines all have pricing power, right, because of point programs, because of timelines, the timing of their routes, the routes themselves, and things like that, right? So they all have some pricing power, and the. Standard in this industry, and this has been the case for a long time, is basically airlines can extract between 40 and 55% of consumer service. So basically, if I'm generating $14 million of extra value, right, I can hope to keep, let's say, about 7 million for myself. If so, what do we see, right? What do you think about the investment? Pretty good investment, right? It's a pretty good investment. Now, why did I go through all this, right? I went through all this to sort of make the point that, like, how delayed pays off, right? This is, this is a very small clinical example, right? But it tells us that even in this sort of thing that might seem kind of inconsequential, right? Because, like, where are these customers going to go? Like, of course, they have to fly. So, right? Yeah, that may all be true, but let's say you did all this. What this says is, hey, you'll have a better product, because, by virtue of having a better product, better price. You might be able to price more aggressively, and all of this sort of stuff, right? And that lets you and that lets you extract, right? So part of the reason for doing this was actually giving you a sense of how non linear some of the payoff over here can be. The other is going to give you a sense of how you might even think about this. Okay, let me pause here for questions.

Speaker 5  16:21  
Yeah, just that other directional value. I was just thinking

Speaker 1  16:26  
is more the delay planes pay mode through the being on ground is more expensive than being on air. Yeah, that's correct. So there's, there's other reasons that would make this even more attractive. That's right. So it's a no brainer of an investment.

Speaker 1  17:01  
You're right. So the way that's actually going to impact us from here is incoming flights will get delayed, right? And so in fact, the impact of that delay is even larger because of the network effects, right? If I'm not at my gate, some other flights will get delayed in the air. So it's not just these customers delayed. So the payoffs even larger.

Speaker 1  17:30  
The mortgage thing is trickier. They're not going to get mortgage, right? This is a very, very fantastic business microphone, just to make sure I

Speaker 6  17:40  
understand it. You say, basically create value, yeah, but it's a bit weird, because if I'm a customer, I bought a ticket, you're delayed as Jet Blue, you're making something wrong, and then you're fixing it, and then you're creating value for me.

Speaker 1  17:58  
Good. What we're thinking about this is where the market is, right? So imagine the market is sitting at like, a delay of three and a half hours, or something like that, right? It's like, basically, I don't want to get into, like, the economic argument, right? Because that's what let me, let me finish the question. So the point over here is to sort of think about this relative to what the other standard might be. So we're saying like, Hey, listen, you know, typically, you know where you end up is just three and a half hours away. Then me saving you an hour and a half relative to this option or any other option, is generating incremental value for you, right? Presumably, when you bought a ticket, you were aware of the fact that these delays were unlike this, right? So those expectations will go through, and now I'm saving you relative to that. It's not like you bought the ticket expecting zero hours, right? It's a market problem. It's very much a market problem. But the thing I want you to sort of take away, is what you said first, which is, it's tempting to sort of think about this as a cost. This is a cost of doing business, right? But that's actually very myopic. What I'm trying to say over here is, as opposed to thinking about this as a cost, perhaps go so far as to think about it as a way of generating value, right? So let's say, you know, the Marketplace offers, let's go back to the comments, right? Let's say the Marketplace offers, you know, a minute to 30 seconds in the drive through, you come in and say, I'm going to, yeah, everybody's used to this, I'm going to offer a product that does, right? A minute in 10 seconds, you're active, you're creating value, right? That's what I'm talking about here, is you don't necessarily need to just do this for cost. You can do this as an investment. In fact, returns value, and this is one mechanism. Okay, good. So this was a simple problem. Let's make things a little more interesting, right? Oh. Um, okay, so this is anybody here fly into and out of SF pretty often, Okay, a couple of okay. So San Francisco changed, how they did, you know, ride share pickups. So up until about 29 like pre pandemic, right? About pre pandemic, actually, you could get a pickup right at the right at the door, right to get out the airport, get a pickup right at the door. Now, you know, they make you walk quite a bit to get to get your to get your Uber, and this is sort of an interesting natural experiment, right? Because if you sort of think about it, yeah, they're making you walk. But it's also like a pain in the ass for the cabs. Okay? So the cabs have to go through, like, all kinds of stuff, and so after and they have to wait kind of far away from, you know, where, you know, there's a place they can park that's far away from the pickup. So, you know, after you order your cab, there's going to be a long delay. What I like about this is, this gives us sort of a nice little experiment to understand, how do people react to these delays, right? And so here's sort of like what actually happened, all right. So the idea over here, okay, is after moving this, right? Here's how wait times have moved, okay? So if we go for Uber, the Uber wait time, okay, moved from eight minutes, okay, just something like 24 minutes, okay? And the lift wait time competitor moved from 10 minutes to 28 minutes, all right. So this was, this was the result of, like, what they did, like, right? Like, moving the cabs far away and this and that, right? Some extent, it's also delivering, right, the strong taxing union, this and that, right. So this, this is, this is sort of like a nice natural experiment. They've increased the delay for customers right now. The question is, what was the impact of this increase in delay? All right, so if you look at cancelations, all right, so this is Wait, let's look at cancelations, right? So cancelations for Uber went from 8% okay to 28% right? And cancelations for Lyft went from 6.4% to 30% okay. Hopefully you can see this is a bad thing, right? You can't run a business like this. This business will collapse, okay? And what this shows you, perhaps not surprising you given your own experience with handover and so on and so forth, is people are extremely price sensitive, right? Folks are very, very price sensitive, and unlike the JetBlue story, there's no, like, simple investment I can make that just fixes this problem, right? Like, I can't say, oh, more caps. Oh, because you don't actually own that capacity, right? I can't say, oh, I'll get more caps by paying a lot more to my drivers also, no, because it's an extraordinarily competitive marketplace, and you're already string at the seams to make money, right? So there aren't any like, obvious things you can do here in terms of adding capacity, okay? And secondly, unlike sort of you know, the predictability that came with the JetBlue, all this stuff is, like, totally unpredictable, right? You're not going to basically be able to build a business based off of, oh, I'm going to track every flight and every whatever. Maybe you're able to do that at one airport. Just think of the ops of kind of doing this, right? You can't build a business. Okay? So the question I want to deal with is, how do we deal with this sort of stuff? Okay? This is also going to come back full circle to having us think through, if we're in the McDonald's spot, if we're the Burger King thing, or whatever, right? Really, any service business that we're thinking about, what might be actually doing, okay? So that's, that's, that's kind of the problem I really want to zoom into, tune into today. So just to kind of summarize where we are all right, in thinking through managing time to customer in service businesses, right? So the whole concept has been that time equals money, right? That's, that's the whole concept. And oftentimes time is a lot of money, right? Oftentimes time is a lot of money, right? We talked through that little example with JetBlue. You can see how quickly that adds up. Okay, so time is money. On the one hand, this applies to pretty much any service business. Right? On the flip side, you know, what do we get to control? And broadly speaking, we get to control companies, right? One thing we get to control is process utilization, right? This is like what we were talking about with McDonald's and Burger King and so on and so forth, right? Should this be 40% should it be 30% should it be 20% of course, controlling process utilization is very expensive, right? Like, imagine you went to McDonald's and you said, oh, yeah, I can save on your delays, but you know your utilization has to come down from. 40% to 30% that's a that's crazy, right? That's a that's gonna like if I, if I add more people, it's a 33% increase in my staff. That doesn't work out for market. Okay, so that is a lever, but not an easy lever to use. The other thing we realized with this lever is that the notion of 100% utilization is probably not a great idea, right? This is something we we actually saw in class Tuesday. The second sort of KPI that we can try to control is variability, right? We're already getting the sense that variability matters, right? In the JetBlue context, how did variability matter? Well, there are planes left uniformly over the course of the day, we won't have to worry about any of this DIC nonsense, right? The whole problem came up because the flights were pumped right? There's a bunch of them left in the AM, there's a bunch of lemon left in the PM, right? But afterwards, in between, it's not that much needed, right? So it's that variability that really caused problems for us, right? We also saw that the impact of that variability was pretty non linear, right? In particular, think of that situation where increasing demand by 36% led to, like, 110% increase in delay. Okay, so this is kind of the situation we're kind of grappling with, right? We know that we want to manage delays because time is money, a lot of money, right? But anyway, we know what's kind of impacting this, right? The two things that impact is like utilization, right? If you're super busy, that seems to be a bad thing, and it seems to be a bad thing, especially when you have variable right? That's, that's kind of the mental model we're at at this point. Okay, so what I want to do in today's session. It's kind of built tools that are more sort of prescriptive than this sort of very kind of qualitative, wishy, washy way of talking about, okay, so that's like, that's what I'd like to kind of accomplish today, right before we dive in questions. Do

Speaker 1  27:01  
Yes. So this is the tool we're going to use today. Okay, so we're going to use this tool. It's actually a really exciting tool in the sense that, so it's very sophisticated, and it's the same tool that basically is used to kind of build switches for the Internet, or manage the internet and all this sort of stuff, right? Like so networking books that build networks, right? This is the tool they ultimately use, right? The way you can use that same tool that's designed for computer networks, okay? To think about these very practical issues that involve human beings, all right? So that's, that's kind of the plan for today. And, you know, the goal of the year is not to train engineers. Some of you may be engineers, but this is not like an engineering class, right? Rather, the goal is to sort of understand what are sort of strategic insights that we can pull out of this. Okay, so we're going to go deep into understanding the tool, because the goal, again, is to kind of grab some nice strategic insights that we can deploy on right? Particularly, today itself. When I ask you guys to solve that, okay, so I want to do this step by step, okay? And to do that, okay, I'm going to start with a simple, deterministic queue. Okay, so here's a deterministic queue. Okay, there's a job arriving every minute, right? Every minute, sort of on the minute. Okay, I want to introduce a little bit of notation here, which may seem unnecessary now, but later on, I think it'll be useful. Okay, so I'm going to use a okay as a variable that represents the time between two jobs arriving. Okay, so what's a in the story? One minute, right? So A is one minute, okay, so is the time between arrivals. So if is the time between arrivals, the rate at which these arrivals come in, right, the rate of demand is simply one divided by right, make sense? Is the time between arrivals. The rate of arrivals is simply one divided by the reciprocal, okay, so one over a in this case, that's just one, okay, and so, you know, that's one job a minute. That's pretty simple. So that's one side of this queue. The other side of this queue is we have a server, and the server takes 345, seconds to process each job. Okay, so I'm going to call that S for service time. Okay, so a is often referred to as the inter arrival time, right? The inter arrival time will be here is one minute the service time, the time it takes to serve the customer, right, is 45 seconds, right, which, in minutes is three quarters of a minute, right? So, just like we had lambda, right, what's the service rate? If the time it takes to serve a customer is S, the rate at which you serve customers, mu, so. Simply one divided by us, right? And so in this case, one divided by us. That's one divided by three quarters, right? That's four thirds of a job per minute. Okay? Everybody, okay with this. They're pretty, pretty straightforward, right? Like, so, job arriving every minute. So the demand is a job a minute. It takes me 45 seconds, three quarters of a minute, to finish a job. So in one minute, I can do a little more than one job, right? I can do four thirds of a job. Okay, so this is our setup, so quick. So the first question over here is, what? What does our queue look like? Zero. There's no queue, right? It's obvious. Job arrives. You know, the job arrives at time zero. It takes 45 seconds to process the job. Then you can chill out, like, I don't know, smoke a cigarette or something, and then the next half shifts help, right? That's it. So there's no queue, okay? So there's no queue in this app. That's pretty straightforward. Okay. Now what I want to do, okay, is I want us to sort of try and grapple with unpredictable variability, okay? And I want to, I want us to think about unpredictable variability in a very clinical setting, right? This is the clinical setting, okay, so here's sort of the way I want to think about unpredictable variability in this little clinical setting, right? I'm going to say that the server is just like before, okay? So the server takes exactly 45 seconds, three quarters of a minute, to process a job, just like before, right? And so because it takes 45 seconds to process each job, just like we did on the previous slide, you know, mu is four thirds of a job per minute, okay, but the demand process is a little bit wonky. Okay, so in the earlier story, right? Jobs arrived on the minute, every minute, right? So you got a job arrived. Now, may have a job arrived 60 seconds later, the job arrived 60 seconds after that, right over here, it's a little bit different, and so I want to make sure that we understand what that looks like. Okay, so what we're seeing here, let's imagine that a job is just arrived, okay? And I ask myself, How long until the next job, right? Well, in this case, it's random, okay, unpredictable. In particular, the next job may arrive after just 15 seconds. Okay, that happens 50% of the time. The other 50% of the time the next job arrives after a minute and 45 seconds. Okay, so in particular, okay, let's, let's think about that quantity, a the time between jobs, right? We're saying a the inter arrival time. Okay, that's 15 seconds or 1/4 of a minute. 1/4 of a minute, right? With probability 50% right? Or it's one minute

Unknown Speaker  32:53  
35 seconds,

Speaker 1  32:58  
which is seven fourths of a minute. Okay? With probability 50% everybody, the same thing is, it's made up, but it's a way to understand unpredictability, right? So we the job just arrived. I'm asking myself, How long until the next job arrives? And we think it's unpredictable, half of the time it'll arrive very quickly. The other half of the time it'll take a minute and 45 seconds. So quick question for you guys, what kind of object is a no here, what kind of object is? It's random. It's a random one. Very good. David could be so proud. Yeah, so that's a random variable. Okay, to have a random variable. One interesting thing you can ask about for a random variable is, what's its mean? What's its average value, right? So I can ask, what's the average value of this random variable? I know, you know, David used this notation for average, the expected value of a random variable, right? E of A what's the expected value of a random variable? And so I'm going to ask, what's the expected value of this random variable, right? Somebody help me with that. What's the expected value of this random variable? Yeah, matrix, 50% multiplied by first outcome. So it's quarter times 50% 1/4 of a minute, 50% of the time, plus, yeah, seven fourths. It's seven fourths of a minute, 50% of the time. Okay, and what's that? That's simply 1/8 plus seven, eight, which is eight, eight, which is one minute. Okay, so that's interesting. The average time between two jobs, yes, it's exactly one minute. Everybody good with that little calculation that I did, right? So the average time between two jobs is exactly one minute. So the average time between two jobs is exactly one minute. Like, what's lambda? Lambda is one divided by the average time between two jobs. That's one divided by one. And so that's one job. For a minute. Everybody good with this, right? So basically, I looked at this queue. The only thing I've changed is the time between two arrivals is random. It's unpredictable, but it has a well defined average, right? And its average is exactly like before. It's one job a minute. All right, okay, so now I have a question for you, which is what's going on there. Okay, there we go. This is what we have. And my question to you is this, what does the queue look like? Do we have a queue here? No, no no cube. Okay. Why no cube? I mean, the values are safe, yeah. So you're saying demand is, you know, one job a minute. I can serve way more than one job a minute. So there's no okay, Danielle, I

Speaker 7  35:59  
think there might be a queue, because sometimes you'll be serving a customer.

Unknown Speaker  36:08  
And so I could get unlucky,

Speaker 1  36:12  
yeah, saying I could get unlucky, which is that I start serving a customer. They are unlucky. Another customer arrives 15 seconds later, right? So I just started working on the customer. I know it's gonna take me 45 seconds. Next customer shows up 15 seconds later, that customer's gonna have to wait, right? Okay, right. So I might have a cute temporary, right? I might have a cute temporary,

Speaker 1  36:42  
yeah, this whole thing is random. So you're right, like, you know, sometimes, when you have a queue, sometimes, and that's kind of where I want to, I want to go into that direction. So DeMille was saying, you know, I can get unlucky, right? Everybody get unlucky. But Rob, remember, you're sort of thinking about, like, long term behavior, right? So maybe I get unlucky a little bit, right? But let's imagine, okay, that you really care about long term behavior, right? So in particular, you cared about, okay, on average, what's the cube, right? So in particular I'm saying, Look, I'm going to keep looking at the cube over a long, long time? I want to average out those values, right? So indeed, Daniela said to start, I might get unlucky, but you know, I'm gonna take a long, long average, right? So I care about what the long term behavior of this cube looks What do you think the long term behavior? Yeah, camera zero. So, right? Our intuition is our intuition is that like, why? Because, on average, we serve customers faster than they come in, right? So, on average, I have no queue. That's not true, okay, so, so here's the crazy claim. So the crazy claim is actually you will have a Q amp, alright, in particular, what I'm saying is that, let's say you kept snapshotting, right? So here's the experiment I'm saying, Hey, you can go experiment with this, if you like, write this down in Excel, and you can literally simulate this in Excel, right, if you like. And what I'm saying is, in your like, Excel, simulation of this queue, you can ask yourself, Okay, what did the Q look like at, you know, 30 seconds, what the Q look like at 60 seconds? What did it look like at a minute 90 seconds? At a minute 30 seconds, so on and so forth. I just do this right, and use and then take an average of that number, right? So this gives you a sense of what the average is, and that average is going to be a non zero number. Okay, so this, find this a little bit confusing, honestly, right? Hopefully you do too, because what we're saying earlier is something really weird, right? We're saying I can actually serve people faster, on average, than the rate at which they're arriving. And despite this, I have a queue on average. So how could that be true, right? So everybody understands how I can have a Q initially, right? That's, that's, that's Daniel's idea, right? But we also have this intuition of averages, right? There's a law of averages, the law of averages, nobody can escape the law of averages, right? Why is it that we have a queue despite the law of averages suggesting that we should not let me get a new voice. Random, has to

Speaker 8  39:28  
do with the fact that you can't sort of bank spare capacity. So you can't take a few times below zero. Okay, so if you have one of those minute 45 Guys, then you just smoke a cigarette for a whole minute, and you can't bank that extra minute to take advantage of the cube before it happens.

Speaker 1  39:42  
Now. Okay, so let's just think about what Brendan talked about. Okay, so let's say, let's say, right. We got unlucky to start right. So we had all these guys around, and, yes, a few built up, but eventually that has to stop, right? I. And because the average rate of arrival is slow, so we'll work down that queue, and the queue will eventually hit zero, right? What happens when the queue gets zero? What do we do? Okay, nothing, right? This point is we do nothing. So now I'm just kind of sitting there, right, doing absolutely nothing. I can't use that time between while I'm quote, unquote doing nothing and banking towards future demand. Right? That's like, for instance, picking up the phone and just talking into it and banking up those responses for future customer service requests, or driving an empty camera and saying you're going to apply that value to a future question, it's crazy. You can't do it, right? So this is kind of because this is a service system, right? I can only work on something when it arrives. As a result, I have forced items, right? I have forced item is in the system, which, yeah, you know, Q is zero. I can't really do anything. Okay? So, yeah, I went through that busy phase. It went down to zero, and then that whole story didn't repeat over a guess, there's no reason that whole story can't repeat. It might be quiet for a while, and again, I might get a burst of people coming 15 seconds apart, and this game actually repeats. So in particular, what we're saying is, hey, you might get something that looks like this. You got really unlucky, right? Then you were able to kind of work down all this demand, right? Everything went back down to zero. But over this period of time, what were you doing? Nothing, right? You're just hanging out because you can't do anything over here that services the demand that comes in over here. And so that as soon as you hit this six minutes or whatever, just from here again, got unlucky, got lucky, and this whole game can repeat over and over and over. Okay, now here's what's crazy about this, right? What's crazy about this is if you threw in just a tiny bit of variability, because you said, hey, you know, 99% of the time a customer arrives after, you know, whatever, 58 seconds, right? And 1% of the time, right, they arrive after 10 minutes or something like that, right? You'd still, you'd still, actually have these sorts of queues. As soon as you throw in variability, okay, you're going to have a queue that builds up. And this is kind of a mechanism of what's going on. As soon as you have variability, you have forced items. You're effectively losing capacity, right? Everybody see this, right? You're effectively losing capacity because of this variability. You're losing the ability to use that capacity because of this variable. And so what I'd like to do, right, is kind of take this sort of qualitative insight, right, and make it a little bit more quantitative. In particular, what we're seeing over here, right, is that as soon as we throw in some variability that's unpredictable, right, this is unpredictable variability, right? As soon as you throw in variability that's potentially unpredictable, you've got to wait, okay? As a result, what I'd like to do is understand that now. All right, let me let me pause. This is quite a, quite something to digest. There.

Speaker 1  43:25  
We're not worried about the variance of the wait time. That could be something to worry about. What's happening over here is simply that there's uncertainty in when people will arrive, right? Can you capture unpredictable variability, right? So we're saying, Look, I can't predict exactly when it's the next person's going to survive. I know on average it's a minute, but sometimes it's 15 seconds, and sometimes it's a minute, 45 I don't know which it's going to be. This is the cost of being of not being able to know that. That's what we're talking about.

Speaker 2  43:57  
Yeah, so if we complete the row, in this case, the average. Yeah. So what is it? Yeah, it's 0.75 it's 0.75 Yeah, which is not about one,

Speaker 1  44:10  
it's way below. It's worth right? So come back to your offer. Example. You said, like, you know, the thing was, like, utilization was whatever, 70% 70% whatever, right? You could get really busy, but you can't, like, keep a buffer for, like, the buffers that can be trashed. So to some extent, you got to do it when you order comes in. And the buffer case had very much interest because of their, you know, their flexibility, right? Yeah, so, so clearly, that has something to do, and maybe these ideas will help us fix that. As we get to do the process, we're going to

Unknown Speaker  44:57  
have tons of back inside. Okay? That.

Speaker 1  45:11  
Okay, good, good, good, very, good. So let's, let's put together what process. Let's put together what prostas and Alex are saying, right? So process is actually reflecting back on the puzzle we were at on day one, right? Where we said, look, utilization of this wobbly thing 79% right? Yeah. This is why, right. For instance, if we actually had unpredictable arrivals, which is very much a possibility, this tells us, in a very simple clinical way that you actually have to this. You need to make it a little bit more a little bit more careful. I think Alex is saying, okay, great, I understand, right? And one thing that this suggests is, well, if the utilization is lower, right, if I lower utilization, put in more capacity, right? Obviously, right? Those peaks are going to get smaller, right? So, instead of, instead of taking 45 seconds to, you know, process a job, for instance, right, let's say it became 30 seconds, you know, I'd still have delays, right? Because you know, I still have delays, right, because you think, but those peaks wouldn't be nearly as high, right? And sort of clear that the delays would actually go down. But the issue, I think of here is, as we sort of think balance this point right, if the answer is just be faster or hire more people, but also look great. Does that cost money? So, yeah, we sort of see the mechanism now, but we're not quite seeing a solution. Yeah, that's, that's sort of where anytime, not quite soon. Yeah, that's what we need to work towards, right? Like, okay, great. I see variability, causes delays. Is the solution? Just adding more? Can I do something? Okay, alright, good. I like to

Speaker 6  47:06  
Can I do something about the volatility of the arrival site, 100%

Unknown Speaker  47:14  
and could do the same thing that's

Speaker 1  47:22  
absolutely the cues. And the question is, how much more, right? So just repeating, we were splitting for the class, right? He's saying, I'm talking about one side of this variability, right? What if? What about the guy flipping burgers? Right? What if the guy flipping burgers gets a call from his mom? Right? Two stories, alright, like answer the phone, right? And then now you might burn a batch of burgers, your boss might go with you, and so on and so forth, right? But you can see all kinds of things might happen at that site where that's gonna matter too, by the way, I wanted to think about eventually mapping this to like Uber, right? And the Uber setting, one way of thinking about the service time is, how long does it take for me to take somebody in my tab, drive, drop them off? Right? How long does it take for me to do the right? Yeah, Everybody see what I'm saying, right? If you kind of try to map this to Uber what is the service? A service is picking somebody up and like, dropping them off where they are, right? And that's a service. That's a simplification of service, because in a different spot, but let's put that aside, right? It's taking it from point A to point B. That's variable, right? There's traffic, there's all this sort of stuff. So that's highly variable. So the Uber setting, certainly, both sides are going to be variable. In any realistic setting, actually, both sides will be variable, okay, Brandon's part with normal distribution. We did this one in the frame. So

Speaker 6  48:47  
basically the variability, in other words, one in one minute and 45 seconds, the probability of death happening four consecutive times together. That's not and so when random point is that the mean is zero, you're only looking at the middle of distribution, and that's whole right hand side that we are looking at, which causes this variable.

Speaker 1  49:17  
No, no, no, that's not how I would think about what you said, we're saying something very, very simple. No, no, normal, no, nothing. We're saying something like really simple. We're saying over here what I said earlier, which is that if you're in a service situation, right, you can't do work in anticipation of future demand, right? You can't inventory your work in a service setting. You cannot inventory your work because you cannot inventory your work, you're going to have force idleness, and that forced idleness results in whatever caused the queue in the first place that's going to reappear, right? Like, I can't do work to prevent that, because, yeah, okay, I'm. Empty now, and I still get unlucky with 15, 1550 and happening in the future. Okay, good. So a lot to chew on them here, but this is a toy model. We can't really do much with this toy model. So what I'd like to do is to talk about, uh, substantially more sophisticated model, okay, that will let us actually strategize eventually, right? Like and think about how to manage, okay, but we gotta go deep, right? We know that. We know some of the moving parts. We understand a little bit more of the moving parts, but my answer can't be, oh, just, you know, double the number of people working for something like that, right? Like, we don't want that. And so the model we're going to use is this, this model with a really attractive name, called the GGN queuing model. Okay, and you might be asking, What does TGN stand for and GTN, because maybe that will shed light. But the first G stands for general, the second G stands for general, and the N stands for N stands for Right, very, very interesting people that do this stuff, like coming up with hard sounding names, but the idea is actually really simple. Okay, the idea is actually really simple. So, right? Like, what's the idea? This should remind you of customs and border whatever, right? Like when you come into the country, right? So you come into the country, you got into this long serpentine queue over here, right? You got into this long serpentine queue, and then there's a bunch of these sort of, you know, customs and whatever agents you know at the height of the queue waiting there to torture you. And so you know, what did you know after this guy gets done torturing whoever he or she was torturing, let's say, Okay, next person come up, right, and the next person goes up, and you right, and you and you, and you start, you start the process. Okay, so you've seen this, right? We see this in our daily lives, but it turns out that this picture replicates all over the place, right? This picture, for instance, replicates in computer networks. Okay, so where that little thing over there is a switch, and that switch is switching packets across the internet, right? And you've got to manage this backlog, otherwise your internet connection slow, right? So the core of switch looks like this. How about this map to Uber? How about a picture like, this map to Uber, right? Like, how would you take this, this sort of picture, and map this sort of picture to Uber? Yeah. So those are the cow dragons, yeah. So those n guys, right? Right? You have a pool. So imagine that this queue maps to like some geographic area. Let's say the geographic area, you know, is the quarter mile around the Sloan School. Okay, so you take a or maybe even that's a 10th of a mile radius around the Sloan School. That's our kind of area, right? And the N over here is the number of cabs available in the end, right? That's something we kind of hopefully control, okay, with like, incenting people to come here, right? But, okay, that's the number of tabs. Okay, what's that? Those are prospective customers, people asking for a ride, right? You pull up your phone, you request a ride. You know, if everybody's busy, there's nobody I can match you with you're waiting in that queue to effectively be matched. Does this make sense, right? So this can match the lots of different obviously, this maps to like the Burger King setting, right? Or the McDonald setting, that's, that's the people waiting in the drive through, or whatever. So really, right? You can take pretty much any sort of service setting, and you can think about it as some sort of fancy version of this GGN cube. Okay, so this is truly like a model that has transformed Industries at some level, right? Like a lot of the technology you work with essentially runs off a model like this one second. Okay, so let's ask ourselves, what are interesting things to kind of quantify in a setting like this, right? What are the things you know? What are the interesting things we might quantify? So one thing we can quantify, actually, you guys have, what are some of the things we can kind of quantify So, and we obviously already have, so that's the number of servers. What else? What are other interesting things to ask about Arjun? So how fast they're coming in, right? So there's a lambda, which is, as we said earlier, one over, sort of a right one over the amount of time between two successful arrivals. So there's a lambda, okay, good, very good. I like that. What else? All the way in the back, the average time of service, right? So there's the average. How long does it take for the cab guy to, kind of, you know, for that, that average right out of here. So that's, that's e of s, the expected value of the service time. And so the rate of service is simply one over e of s. Everybody good with this, right? So I've got lambda, I've got mu, what? The utilization over here, what's row? What would row be in a system like this, Carlos expected service close, right? So it's going to be demand, the rate of demand divided by the rate at which you can supply, right? So the rate of demand over here is lambda, right?

Unknown Speaker  55:25  
Okay, what's the rate at which you can serve these guys? Mu close, but not quite. So one server would serve this, this demand of the rate

Speaker 1  55:38  
n times mu, n times mu, okay, so the utilization of the system is demand divided by supply, lambda divided by n times. Mu, Everybody good with this? Yeah, okay, well, if I left it at this, I'm really not saying anything new, right? Like, what's missing? So, like, I'm all for, like, we want to have the simplest kind of model possible, right, but not so simple that it doesn't capture crucial things. So what if it's not captured? What if we not captured? We've not captured variability, right? And where are the two places we can have variability in this picture? What are the two random quantities? Yes, go ahead. Lambda. So lambda is a function of A, so A is one random

Unknown Speaker  56:24  
quantity.

Speaker 1  56:27  
Yes, yeah, exactly. So how long does it take between two jobs, and how long does it take to serve a job, right? So I have an in, and I have an S, these two things are random, right? And presumably, if I'm going to care about the impact of variability, I need to understand how random these quantities actually are. Everybody, everybody knows this, right? Okay, what's that, right? And so, so the two random, the two random quantities I care about, are this a over here, and, you know, the s over here, right? Okay, what's the simplest sort of way of thinking about the randomness of quantifying the randomness of a What's the similar simplest quantity you'd want to look at?

Unknown Speaker  57:12  
Let's get a new hand kind of more. DMD, okay, since I think you suppose it's so if you look at the standard

Speaker 1  57:27  
deviation, everybody remember standard deviation. Everybody remember standard deviation. You love standard deviation. Sounds like a very nervous laugh. Okay, so you're saying so okay, you know that's saying, Look at sigma of a and sigma of s, right, the standard deviation of A and the standard deviation of s, right? That's what you're saying. Okay, let me, let me push on this a little, right? So let's say I told you, okay, that right, the standard deviation of the service time in some system is one minute is one minute is one minute big or small. It depends. What does

Unknown Speaker  58:18  
it depend on? It depends

Speaker 1  58:20  
on the mean. It depends on me, right? So if the other service time, okay, is an hour, right, 60 minutes and the standard deviation is one minute, there's really not much variability, right? On the other hand, if the average Service time is 30 seconds and the standard deviation is one minute. This is huge, right? And so just talking about the standard deviation by itself is probably not very useful. I need to kind of normalize this right by what it's expected, sort of like, what was the nominal value we're kind of talking about, and what's a good nominal value to compare sigma against? What should we compare the standard deviation against over here? Yeah, against the mean. Okay, so instead of looking at just sigma of a, I want to look at sigma of A divided by the expected value. Okay, so this is going to be like a unit free number, right? You guys have seen this number before, right? So this is called the coefficient of variation. Okay, I'm going to call this C of a for the coefficient of variation of a, right? And you know, if the coefficient variation of a is really large, we're saying that there's lots of randomness in the demand. If the coefficient of variation is small, right, there's not very much randomness in the demand. So let me ask you this. So let's say you had a system, okay, where the job, jobs arrived on the minute, every minute. Okay, what's the code? What's C of A? What's the coefficient of variation? Zero? It's zero. Why is it zero? Because it's constant always, yeah, sigma is zero over there, right? Like if it's always one. A the standard deviation is zero, right? The random variable is always equal to its mean, so that standard deviation zero, so, right? That's it. Okay, so we're going to look at the coefficient of variation of this inter arrival time. We're going to call it C of a similarly. And so looking at sigma of s, we'll look at sigma of s divided by expected value of s, that's C of s. Okay, so I just want to clean this up, right? So if I just clean this up, this is kind of what we've said. Okay, we've taken this model, right? We said, Look, we can see that this applies to, like, lots of different settings, right? And what are the interesting quantities here, right? So the interesting quantities here are First off, right? I have arrivals, and I have arrivals at some rate, lambda, right? So that's nothing new. We've been playing with this for some time, right? Lambda is just one divided by the arrival rate. And then I have a service rate, which is one divided by the expected value of s, right? As a function of these two things, I have utilization. What's my utilization of the city of the system? It's lambda divided by n times mu, right? And then we finally got to ask ourselves, how much variability is in the system, right? As we ask ourselves, how much variability is in the system, right? We talked about these two quantities, CA and CS. Is that survey, we've added two new ingredients, basically, right? We've carried two new ingredients to capture the variability in demand and the variability in supply, right? That's it, because we've said, hey, that's that's important, and that could be unpredictable. So we've added these two ingredients. Okay, so what do you want to do this? Right? Well, this is what we want, right? We basically got, you know, looking at a system, and we've got these quantities, some of which we maybe we can control. Okay, so we got lambda, which is our demand. We've got utilization, I'll utilize this the system. We've got the amount of variability over here, C and CS, of your dots or number of servers. But what we'd like to do is we'd like to connect these quantities to something we care about. How long do our customers wait, on average, right? This is, this is like, what we'd like to accomplish, all right? And so what we need, really, over here, is some kind of analytics model, right? That connects these two things. All right? Everybody with me over here? Yeah, so where are we? Okay, let's just take stock of where we are, right? What we've said is we want to worry about this unpredictable variability, right? We looked at the simple clinical example where we said, look, you can have jobs arrive, right? 50% of the time, 15 seconds. 50% of the time, you know, minute, 45 seconds. And when you throw in that kind of unpredictability, you immediately have a cube. Okay, so we set that right. We spent some time. Then we ask ourselves, okay, great. So I know that this variability causes waves. So what right? How do I manage those? What do I do? Like, what are the business implications of this? Right? We said, well, in order to do that, we need to kind of get a sense of how these things work together, right? How does variability impact wave like? What do those levers actually look like? Right? If I change utilization, how does that behave with respect to wavelength? And so, right? And that's where we want to connect. And so we've set up this DGM model as a way of, kind of trying to connect these two things. What we want to talk about now is an analytics model that lets us go from here to there. Okay, so this analytics model is the content of this sort of GDN thing that we're talking about. It's going to look complicated, all right, but the details don't matter. So here's the game point. Okay, I'm going to show you a formula in that box. I've deliberately not showing you now because I want to subsist the formula itself is irrelevant. Okay, but I want to play with the formula for a little bit before I just throw it Okay, so I'm going to show you a formula in a second, right? And what I'd like to do is I'd like to understand what the implications of this formula R Okay. So what does this formula do? This formula tries to quantify the thing we saw in that toy system. Right? Job arriving 15 seconds. 145 seconds. Formula is going to try and quantify in a much more general setup, right where it can talk about uncertainty in demand, I can talk about uncertainty in service. I can change a whole bunch of things. Okay, so I want to play with that formula. I want to understand its implications, and then I want to kind of step back and say, okay, given these implications, okay, that's that's the game. Make sense. All right, good. So let's take a look at this formula. It's really simple, right? Here it is. But whatever, it doesn't matter. No foreign.

Speaker 1  1:04:52  
But there's a reason, right? I just want to understand its implications. Okay? Okay, alright. So I'd like to understand its implications first, slowly, again, in a simple toy thing, before going and talking about Uber, right? And then like McDonald's and whatever. Okay, so here's the toy kind of thing, right? So let's imagine. And again, it's totally made up. This is like the fish this is like the fish thing for today, right? There's nothing real about this, but it's going to make a really good point, right? So let's say I'm managing like a bank branch, right? And the bank branch has like four tellers. Okay, so my, my n is four, right? I have four towers. Okay, now these four tellers, they they collectively see 110 customers per hour. Okay, so my lambda is 110 customers per hour. Okay. Now that customer, teller interaction, okay, that takes two minutes on average. So what we're saying is that E of s, okay, is two minutes, right? Two minutes is 1/30 of an hour, right? And so what's mu? Mu is one over e of x, right, which is one over 1/30 which is 30 customers per hour, right? The teller takes two minutes for a customer. So teller can do 30 customers an hour. That's That's all we're seeing. Okay, so we've got these interesting quantities, right? So 4n is four, lambda is 110 mu is 30. Okay, and let's say, by the way, that ca and Cs are one. Okay, we don't have this over here, so I'm going to assume C and Cs are one. Why seems like a remarkable thing when you look at systems driven by human effort, right? The best thing to do is to go and measure this, but you can't measure it remarkably. A good, good, good rule of thumb is assuming CNCS are one, right? So this is true at Uber. It's true for flipping burgers. It's true for all these situations. Okay, it may not be exactly, but this is a very, very good approximation. Okay, so I'm gonna take c, and c has to be one. What we're saying there is that that standard deviation is kind of on the order of the mean. It's roughly the same. So it's like saying, Look, you know, the right, the right, you know, takes me, you know, 30 minutes, but the standard deviation at peak is also 30 minutes, okay? Or, you know, there's a person arriving once a minute, but that stands Okay, so CNCS All right. So it turns out that you've done like a time study over here, right? And you know, each customer has to wait for five minutes in the set. So somebody has come and told you that w is five minutes. Okay? So somebody came and told you w is five minutes, and here's what they've tasked you. They've asked you to have the wait. Okay? They said five minutes is too long. I want to wait two minutes, 30 seconds. Okay? And there's all sorts of fancy things you might want to do. But for now, let's say the half delay. You just add tellers. Let's start something right? So let's say the half delay. You just add add tellers. Our first simple, okay, so how many tellers would you want out of right? Four tellers. The delay is two minutes. I'm sorry. The delay is five minutes. I want a delay of two minutes, 30 seconds. How many? Tells you, I'm sorry, eight, four more eight, right? The most natural thing to do is eight, right? Okay, so let's, let's actually just just go through that process. Okay, it seems very natural, right? So let's actually just go through that process. Given this, this formula that, that we've, we've introduced over here, right? So what we're seeing over here is lambda is 110 customers per hour, right? S is, you know, we said this already, so I'll just write mu. So mu is 30 customers per hour, right? Why? Because each color takes two minutes per customer, right? And we said ca and Cs are one, okay? And what we want to make sure of is that if we have eight tellers, our weight is lower than two minutes 30 seconds. That's where we just want to make sure. Okay, so just to warm this up, right, we'll ask ourselves, if we have eight colors, hopefully our weight drops below two minutes 30 seconds. Okay, so let's just go through that to kind of like, look at look at look at this. Make sure it makes sense, right? So what do we need? Okay, to use this? We basically need utilization row. We know lambda, right? Lambda is already over there. We know n, and we know ca and CS, right. So I only need to calculate row, and then I just plug it into this thing, right? So what's my row? Right? So my row is lambda divided by n times mu, right? That's 110 for lambda, and you're asking me to eight. So eight mu is 38, times 30, right? That's 110 divided by 240 that's 11/24, you. Slightly shy of 50% utilization. Okay, and now I can just plug this into the formula, right? So what I'm expecting is w1, over lambda, so one over 110, times this utilization, which is 1124, raised to square root of two times n plus 1n. Is eight, oops, two times eight plus one divided by one minus rho times the CS squared one squared CS squared one squared divided by two. Okay, so I got this nasty looking thing, and if you simplify this, this works out to 0.0006 hours and that is 0.04 minutes, which is about 2.2 seconds. What do you guys

Unknown Speaker  1:10:55  
think we overshot? Lou,

Speaker 1  1:10:58  
right, our weight has actually disappeared. The weight has gone from five minutes to zero. Basically it's a second, right? Do you guys still want to do eight? What should we do? Well, four is going to be back at five minutes, right? So how much five? Okay, add one more, right? Let's understand what would happen if we added one. Let's write N equals five. Okay, so same story, and I'm going to be a little bit faster, right? So rho is lambda divided by n times mu, right, lambda still 110 and it's five because four plus one, right, mu is 30. So that's 110 divided by 150 which is 1115, so a little more than 66% okay, and so what's the weight? I can just plug that same thing in one over 110 times 1115, raised to square root of two times. N years, five plus one. CA squared again, one, for CS divide by two, and this is 0.0116 hours, or about point seven minutes. Okay, all right, what's going on over here, right? So first, let's just reflect on what just happened, right? With four tellers, our weight was five minutes with eight tellers, our weight was zero, okay? With four tellers, our weight was five minutes with five tellers, we had increased the number of tellers by 25% the rate went down by, I don't know, 1,000% sorry, what's actually going on? And now what I wouldn't want to is completely forget about all the Ggm, right? Because actually, what's going on over here is something that's akin to, kind of the physics of service systems. Okay, it's something physical. Okay. This is, how about how uncertainty works, right? So it doesn't matter that you're looking at Google, or you're looking at like flipping burgers, or you're looking at a call center, you're going to keep seeing the same physics. Okay, so what is that physics picture, right? So let's actually think about that physics picture, right? This is something we control, right? We effectively control utilization. Okay, so row is something we control. Utilization of 100% we know what that is. We have as much capacity. That's just enough for the average demand. Utilization of 0% we have way, way, way, way, way more capacity than demand, right? But what we want to ask ourselves is, what does the waiting time look like as we scale this utilization? Okay, we want a picture, like a physics picture, right? Of what this might actually look like. Okay, so let's start at the easy point here, right? If I utilization is zero, what's our weight zero, right? Because this is like saying I have tons of people working, you're never, ever going to wait. Okay, so utilization of zero, my weight is actually zero. What happens at a utilization of 100% what do you think happens at a utilization of 100% Alexei, it's going to explode, right? And why is it going to explode? It comes back to Brandon's point from earlier, normally your utilization is 100% right, but because of variability, you have four side units, yes, right. So normally, your utilization is 100% but because of variability, there are going to be times where you simply can't work, right. So that's going to add up over time, and your Q is just going to go up, right? And so what we know is that at a utilization of 100% your weight isn't just high, it's kind of undefined. This thing blows up to infinity. Okay, so it looks something like this, okay, this just blows up. The question is, what's the shape of the curve in between? Right? Well, that's what this formula effectively did, and it basically told us the shape of. The curve looks something like this. What does this imply? Okay, what is this? What does a curve like this imply? I look at curves like this and it brings like it makes me happy. Seriously, curves like this make me very happy. Or, why do curves like why they should make you happy as well? Right? Why should curves like this make you happy? This is what operators are constantly looking for, right,

Speaker 3  1:15:21  
James, because you can have big impacts in a logarithmic relationship by managing your capacity

Speaker 1  1:15:26  
absolutely right. So what we're saying is, hey, let's imagine for a quick second, okay, that I was operating a system somewhere here, right? And my weight was gone off, right? So I was operating system somewhere there. Utilization very close to one Uber Right? Very popular service. Where do you think that utilization is? Somewhere there, right? By the way, if it's not popular at all, you have a different problem, right? So it's a very high utilization, and I have gone awful delays. If you look at this, you say to yourself, damn it, my delays are so high, like, like, moving things a little bit Great. What would say limit is no actually, right? If you shave off even a little bit right, you can actually hope for very, very big impact, right? In particular, in a picture like this, we shared utilization down a tiny bit, right? Let's say I went from here to there and I'm operating here. I was operating here, now I'm operating here, right? So my change in utilization is this tiny quantity. What's the change in wait time? Excuse me, i right? So this is why curves like this make me excited, right? This is what every this is like every operator's dream, right? Right? You're looking for vectors where, effectively, a tiny change, right, can drive very, very non linear, very large impact. And what I'm telling you over here is that it turns out that this is physics. It's not special to McDonald This is not special to Uber, it's not special to whatever. This is true for any service system with uncertainty, right? So what is facts? The facts are, time is money, right? So customers care very, very deeply about wave time, right? We've said this like 10 times over, right? But how do we get to that timeliness? How do we compete on that timeliness? Right? What we're saying over here is we might actually have physics on our side, right, which is that this delay, the delay that the customer experiences, okay, that delay, okay, is a highly nonlinear function of utilization. So you move your utilization a tiny bit, your delay goes down by law, okay. I want to turn this around and make it useful, starting right now, right? So we said earlier that that GDN model applied to Uber, right? We said that, what do you think we should What are implications of something like this in Google, right? What are implications of this GGN story, right, this queue in theory, picture at a place like Google?

Speaker 1  1:18:19  
So one thing we know is we said, right? You gotta be timing. That's super important. How are we going to compete on time, right? How are we going to manage timelines?

Speaker 1  1:18:36  
Okay, got it. Solution, sure, sure, sure. I don't need to use move utilization by locker. How am I going to use move utilization? Sure, less demand

Unknown Speaker  1:18:56  
and more.

Speaker 1  1:18:58  
Okay, so we can start there. We can say, let's do some surge pricing right. And surge pricing would be, what would surge pricing do? Okay, let's just understand what that might do. So basically saying, hey, you know, I price, if I increase price, lambda goes down right, and n actually goes up, right, because this becomes more attractive to drivers. So because lambda goes down. N goes up, uh, lambda divided by n, mu, right? That goes down, right? So, so basically, utilization goes down. So an increase in price will make utilization go down. That sounds fine, but here's the problem with this. So people don't like search prices and people hate surge prices, right? They're going to tell you, hey, there's like a 25% surge, right? You can actually hit this right, and the case might not have talked about it. I don't know if I shared this video, but they've run into lots of problems for like, price gouging this and that, right? That's not good. How? What do we do? How does this. How does a picture like this come to our rescue? Yeah.

Speaker 1  1:20:20  
Yeah, you see the issue is, right? Yeah, we're kind of trying to be dynamic over here, right, right? So you can think about it like hour by hour, like, let's say there's a concept, right? And you're recognizing that there's a surge in demand, right? And you move prices up, right? People are actually like that with my point, right? They're going to say, hey, you know these guys, like, when we need a ride? They move prices up. They perceive that as price value. It's really not great for business. So here you might say, Hey, you fixed this small wait time issue, but you've hurt the rent, right? And that might cost you more. So what I'm asking is, I like the core of the idea, right? But I'm kind of worried that, like, if I have announced surge pricing, that's not going to work, right, like this, it might hurt the brand to share. Since you started the idea going

Speaker 7  1:21:08  
well, I'm thinking maybe you can do like, a different packaging for it, okay? And that way so people are willing to pay more for something that is more valuable,

Speaker 1  1:21:19  
okay? So you're saying this, okay, maybe create two price tiers to create an expensive service that's fast, yeah. What are you doing in the cheaper service? Horrible. What can you do in the cheaper service? You this before give me ideas. What would pooling do in the cheaper service, you have to share a ride, but the end is now doubling up, right? So effectively, in that pool, the person is to hang out with somebody next to them, right? But then, if you don't sacrifice the timings, okay? So immediately, we're saying, look, here's a product idea. As a consequence of this, that product ideas create two tiers, right? One tier you're managing, utilization low, right? The other tier you're managing, you know, utilization is allowed to be higher, but actually won't be high, right? Because basically you're going to, you're going to couple services, right? How do you everybody see this? How do you use this sort of insight that you know you don't need to move utilization all that much to make a big impact on good how would you put your value over that? Right? Does everybody see this? Right? Like the Insight is, Amen, yes, I need to move utilization, but only very little. So how much do you think I need to move prices? Not a lot, very little, right? Okay, so if I don't have to move prices very little, should I do surges? So should I announce a surge price? Right? Like what I'm saying over here is to manage this. I don't need to move prices a lot, right? So should I say, hey, my base price is $20 and right now there's a search for X percent, or should I just simply say the price is $21 this is actually another big product. Everybody see what I'm saying. So Bloomberg, right? They started with saying, Look, we have this base price and there's a search. They don't really do that anymore, right? Instead, if you ask for a ride, they're going to say it's $22 to go there, right, whatever. Right? The point over there is why? Right? For most people, right, you're not going to really notice the change between $21.20 $3 whatever. Right? You look at each other, whatever. There might be a student that's actually extremely price sensitive, and the $2 difference might take a big, big difference, right? But what does this do? This does this removes the price gouging effect, and it removes the price gouging effect taking advantage of the fact that the tiny change in utilization, okay, results in this massive change in weight. Okay, all right, let's keep going with this, right? Keep going. I want to say, take 30 seconds for it. What would you do McDonald's? Or what would you do in McDonald's to manage, right? Like, like, let's, let's look at this formula, right? Let's look at this formula again. Okay, sorry, so, so yeah, it's kind of a crazy formula, but it's actually a recipe, right? So I can control this. I can also control this. I can control this, by the way, Uber, how do you control ca at Uber? How do you control the variability in arrivals at Uber? How do you make these less unpredictable scheduling, right? Scheduling. You throw in a little bit of scheduling. Ca goes down, right. How do you control CS, right? Like, I can't really control that an Uber right? That's like traffic. How would you control CS at like, a place like McDonald's? This is variability in service. Standard is. Whatever you guys look at that we saw robotics video, right? Robotics, right? One of the biggest moves in fast food is basically say we'll have robots, you know, work the fry, right? And it's not like they fry chips faster, right? Like a chip is going to take as long to fry where the human being is frying it for a robot, but with the robot dry ends, you might say, well, that doesn't change utilization. So why the f are they investing in robots, right? Well, it's not CS fees, right? And look, that's also non linear, right? If you, if you have that coefficient of variation, CS goes down by a factor of four, right? It's quadratic, okay? And so in the McDonald's context, it's all about standardization, right? Standardize the person taking the orders of the drive to it's still going to take us the same amount of time, right? Human beings aren't going to, like, I don't know, project that box into the machine, right? You still have to talk that person is not making a mistake, and so forth, right? You have flipping, flip, flipping burgers. That's literally the name of this big robot, right? But, yeah, still takes the same amount of time to flip the fries, but it standard ops as a result, that goes down. So I don't think I want you guys to take away from all of this, right? This picture over here, the discussion from today, right? And then you can, you can look at this, right? There's tons of stuff going on in the space as a result, right? Here's kind of the big wrap, the big sort of thing I want you to take away, like, summarizing these, these three sessions we've had, right? Tomorrow's session will kind of wrap all this together and, like, deal with the, like, a genuinely hard problem, right, which you're actually thinking about right now. But here's kind of what we, sort of, you know, talked about. We said, Look, time is money, and the two things that really kill us on time are variability and legalization, right? Like, a simple view of the world is, look, I have, I match, you know, I match demand and supply perfectly. But that's impossible to do. It's impossible to do because you can't flex these things and you can't predict demand person, right? You have variability. Okay, so these are key drivers off delay. Important thing we've taken away is, not only are they key drivers, right, we've understood how these things actually impact delay, right? Having understood how these things impact delay, we can now go back and come up with new products altogether, right? We literally in the course of four minutes, instead of sitting around and wasting our time, like having thought about this, it took us four minutes to come up with the three major product innovations Uber did in its first six years of service, right? Why? It's sort of obvious, right? Like, if you look at things this way, you see it right there, and you can then quantify the value of various investors. Okay? So thank you for your time. Tomorrow, we're actually going to deal with a really hard problem with all this.

Unknown Speaker  1:28:02  
What? You

Speaker 9  1:28:05  
send me a mail? Only for this week, I'm trying to manually

Unknown Speaker  1:28:10  
add the attendance.

Unknown Speaker  1:28:13  
Yeah, I think it's

Unknown Speaker  1:28:14  
closed, yeah,

Speaker 9  1:28:18  
yeah, so only for this week I'm trying to manually add this. So could you send me a mail?

Speaker 10  1:28:26  
A, M, O, O, N, at MIT?

Speaker 5  1:28:31  
Something wrong with my campus? Because even when I'm on time, this doesn't show up for me, so I don't know. Usually there's a

Unknown Speaker  1:28:46  
your name is,

Unknown Speaker  1:28:49  
are you on the like section? We should ask for that. Okay, I will, I will make a note and let you know. Oh, you have a

Unknown Speaker  1:29:16  
preference. We have

Unknown Speaker  1:29:22  
five people. And then all of

Speaker 4  1:29:29  
us have to speak together.

Unknown Speaker  1:29:38  
Your name? Is there any other

Speaker 4  1:29:51  
shows, correct? I wonder why tried? To do this a few times.

Unknown Speaker  1:30:06  
I will get Back to You.

Transcribed by https://otter.ai
