---
성장:
  - 2025-10-17T15:18:33-04:00
---
 [[Space/Sources/Papers/📜Gans19_EntrepreneurialStrategy]]

Research Summary: This paper develops an integrated framework linking the nature of the entrepreneurial choice process to the foundations of entrepreneurial strategy. Because entrepreneurs face many alternatives that cannot be pursued at once, entrepreneurs must adopt (implicitly or explicitly) a process for choosing among entrepreneurial strategies. The interplay between uncertainty and learning has the consequence that commitment-free analysis yields multiple, equally viable alternatives from which one must be chosen. This endogenous gap between optimization and choice is a central paradox confronting entrepreneurs. Resolving this allows for a reformulation of the foundations of entrepreneurial strategy, emphasizing the role of choice rather than the centrality of the strategic environment.

Managerial Summary: The central strategic challenge for an entrepreneur is how to choose: entrepreneurs often face multiple potential strategies for commercializing their idea but due to the constraint of limited resources, cannot pursue them all at once. At the same time, entrepreneurs are venturing into new domains and as such, must choose under conditions of high uncertainty with only noisy learning available. This paper explores the interplay between these unique conditions that shape the entrepreneurial choice process, finding that often, the process will not yield a single best strategy but instead several equally attractive strategic alternatives. A key implication is that entrepreneurs cannot simply choose what not to do, but instead must proactively decide which equally viable alternatives to leave behind when choosing an entrepreneurial strategy.

KEYWORDS: appropriability, entrepreneurial strategy, entrepreneurship, strategy, uncertainty

[[📜ehrig22_theory_exp]]
Research Summary: We present a framework for theory-based learning and experimentation under uncertainty. Strategists' assumptions about how an envisioned future can be reached are likely incomplete and possibly wrong, for instance, if critical contingencies have been overlooked. We explain how strategists can learn from thinking about and testing necessary conditions for an envisioned future to materialize. By logically linking assumptions to consequences our framework allows drawing inferences from experiments with testable assumptions about elements of a strategy that cannot be tested without major investments. Our framework contains the first formal model of learning from arguments in the strategy literature. By using our framework, strategists can maintain focus on an envisioned future while at the same time systematically seeking out reasons and evidence for why they are wrong.

Managerial Summary: We develop a framework that helps strategists to learn and understand what it takes to reach ambitious goals when there is substantial uncertainty. We ask strategists to formulate their assumptions as a theory: what needs to be true for their goal to materialize. Our framework enables strategists to scrutinize and improve their assumptions by raising objections against their theory and by pointing them to critical experiments to learn whether their assumptions hold. Using our results, strategists can in particular identify overlooked critical contingencies. Overall, we suggest how strategists should revise their beliefs about what it takes to be successful in the light of evidence and arguments for and against their strategy.

KEYWORDS: belief revision, experimentation, learning, managerial theories, uncertainty

[[📜doshi24_eval(gai,strat(dec))]]
Research Summary
Strategic decisions are uncertain and often irreversible. Hence, predicting the value of alternatives is important for strategic decision making. We investigate the use of generative artificial intelligence (AI) in evaluating strategic alternatives using business models generated by AI (study 1) or submitted to a competition (study 2). Each study uses a sample of 60 business models and examines agreement in business model rankings made by large language models (LLMs) and those by human experts. We consider multiple LLMs, assumed LLM roles, and prompts. We find that generative AI often produces evaluations that are inconsistent and biased. However, when aggregating evaluations, AI rankings tend to resemble those of human experts. This study highlights the value of generative AI in strategic decision making by providing predictions.

Managerial Summary
Managers are seeking to create value by integrating generative AI into their organizations. We show how managers can use generative AI to help evaluate strategic decisions. Generative AI's single evaluations are often inconsistent or biased. However, if managers aggregate many evaluations across LLMs, prompts, or roles, the results show that the resulting evaluations tend to resemble those of human experts. This approach allows managers to obtain insight on strategic decisions across a variety of domains with relatively low investments in time or resources, which can be combined with human inputs.

KEYWORDS: business models, generative artificial intelligence (AI), largelanguage models (LLMs), strategic decision making, strategic decisions


