
2025-05-19
1. imagine you're phd student wishing to make a  formula of writing introduction. what you suggested was: 🖼️context, 🪨literature foundation, 💭gap, 📐approach, 💸implications, 📝outline. 

2. using # example of another paper, see whether the order of 🖼️context, 🪨literature foundation, 💭gap , 📐approach, 💸implications, 📝outline. if so, make markdown table with six rows (🖼️🪨💭📐💸📝CLGAIO) and map how each of its fifteen paragraphs in # example of another paper  map with each of the six.
3.

example of another paper from [[📜gans23_expchoice]] below:

1. Introduction

[1] How should ﬁrms learn about new technological opportunities to evaluate whether they should exploit or invest in them? Being able to learn about a technology and evaluate it prior to costly investments has beneﬁts (Nelson 1982). Better information reduces errors in exploitation decisions both in the direction of investing in technologies that prove to have limited potential and in the direction of missed opportunities to exploit technologies that turn out to be signiﬁcant. Those missed opportunities have been a particular focus on the literature regarding the loss of market leadership by ﬁrms (otherwise known as “disruption”).

[2]Although investing in information prior to exploitation has been investigated in the literature on innovation (Kerr et al. 2014, Agrawal et al. 2021), there has been little focus, formally, on the type of information that should be gathered and the nature of the experiments that should be performed. By contrast, the issue of what information, evidence or, more generally, experiments has been emphasized in the informal literature on technology evaluation (Henderson and Clark 1990, Christensen 1997) and entrepreneurial experimentation (Ries 2011, Camuffo et al. 2020).

[3] For example, one of the more compelling stories from Christensen (1997) was that, for disruptive innovations (i.e., innovations with initially poor performance but a trajectory of faster improvement), when incumbents survey their own customers as to whether they would want a product based on those technologies, the negative signals lead them astray. Precisely because these firms listened to their customers, invested aggressively in new technologies that would provide their customers more and better products of the sort they wanted, and because they carefully studied market trends and systematically allocated investment capital to innovations that promised the best returns, they lost their positions of leadership. (Christensen 1997, p. 8)

[4] A speciﬁc way of formally considering this story is that ﬁrms had a choice of the sample of customers they drew on to evaluate a new technological opportunity. Implicitly, Christensen argued that the sample, focusing on existing customers, would lead to high false-negative signals of the technology’s potential when it is disruptive precisely because those technologies were of greater value to underserved customers or people who may not be presently customers of the ﬁrm. In other words, by focusing on their own customers’ preferences, the ﬁrm was setting a high bar to receive a signal that led them to exploit the technology. However, Christensen further asserted this bias was a mistake. He argued for an alternative normative prescription that ﬁrms should instead ignore their own customers and setup skunk works to evaluate products with others (Christensen and Raynor 2013). Christensen argued that this was because a ﬁrm’s own customers are less likely to believe they are underserved by the existing technology. The upshot is that incumbent ﬁrms gathering information in this way would miss opportunities (to their ultimate competitive detriment) that new entrants would not.

[5] There are other examples where incumbent ﬁrms conducted experiments that were biased toward negative news. When Blockbuster, in 2004, facing pressure from competition with Netﬂix, was considering abandoning late fees for video returns, it decided to conduct a trial. Nick Shepherd, the head of international operations, wanted late fees reduced but John Antioco, the chief executive ofﬁcer (CEO), was not so sure. This led to a trial that was of a particular form. Although Shepherd balked at killing late fees altogether, Antioco urged him to test such a program in a few U.S. markets. Shepherd chose to test in Chattanooga, Tennessee, a city where nearly every test initiative went wrong. He sent a second-string team of executives to launch the no-late-fees promotion—to increase its chances of failure. (Keating 2012, p. 117). As it turned out, the experiment yielded a positive result that gave Blockbuster the conﬁdence to end late fees.

[6] The active evaluation of new technologies was commonplace by incumbent ﬁrms as Christensen and others (Henderson and Clark 1990) emphasized. Blockbuster, in the early 2000s, before Netﬂix was even founded, launched a world-ﬁrst movies on-demand system to supply consumers videos directly to their home over the Internet. That product failed because of a lack of home broadband in the United States at the time. For Blackberry, their sales increased following the iPhone’s launch in 2007, and they were able to develop a touchscreen version of their own phone relatively quickly. However, within a few years, their performance providing a device beyond calls, messages, and email did not match the wealth of apps both Apple and then Android could support. Although Blackberry could match or exceed hardware component performance, it was and stayed behind on its integration with software, the core of Apple’s architectural innovation (Gans 2016).

[7] This pattern shifted the plausible mechanism explaining successful ﬁrm failure to the methods by which ﬁrms evaluated new technological opportunities. Moreover, a theme in the disruption literature was that ﬁrms were effective in evaluating technologies that were sustaining, and not radical, allowing them to exploit these technologies and maintain market leadership. Thus, Christensen argued that, by not evaluating disruptive technologies, properly, the ﬁrms exposed themselves to disruption by those who did.

[8] This paper explores formally the normative contentions made in the informal literature. The research question this paper asks is as follows: Was it incorrect for incumbent ﬁrms to continue with certain evaluation and experimental methods to understand new disruptive technologies? In so doing, we can evaluate the normative prescription for those ﬁrms that they should have adjusted their experiments accordingly and that this would have been advantageous to them. The goal here is to take the informal arguments of the disruption literature seriously and assess their efﬁcacy. This is done using a formal economic model of experimentation and competition between an incumbent and an entrant ﬁrm.

[9] The approach used to answer this question is as follows:
1. When do ﬁrms, evaluating whether to exploit a technological opportunity, choose certain types of experiments?
2. How do those choices relate to the type of technological opportunity (disruptive versus sustaining) and to the type of ﬁrm (incumbent versus entrant)?
3. Do the answers to these questions change when incumbents and entrants face each other in potential competition based on the technological opportunity?

[10] In answering these questions, the focus is on the nature of experiments identiﬁed in the literature and whether the optimal choices of ﬁrms match with empirical choices and proposed normative choices.
[11] 1.1. Preview of the Main Result The formal model analyses a ﬁrm’s choice of experiment and, in particular, whether it sets a high- or low-bar with regard to whether an experiment can generate a positive signal regarding the technology or not. The key assumption is that the experiment does not yield a perfect signal regarding the technology’s value. An imperfect signal gives credence to the choice of experiment type and to how different ﬁrm characteristics might drive that choice.

[12] Of particular importance is the ﬁrm’s predisposition to exploit the technology in the absence of further information. It is shown that a ﬁrm is more likely to choose an experiment that relates to their own predisposition to exploit the technological opportunity. If a ﬁrm would, absent an experiment, choose to exploit an opportunity, they choose an experiment with a low bar for what constitutes favorable news. This is because that experiment will be of most use to them if it can convince them to change their predisposition and not exploit the opportunity. This occurs if a negative signal very clearly indicates that the ﬁrm choose contrary to their predisposition.

[13] Given this, we are able to determine that it is, in fact, optimal for incumbent ﬁrms facing disruptive opportunities to choose to evaluate those opportunities with an experiment slanted toward generating unfavorable news (such as a survey of their own customers). This is because such opportunities invariably mean that current productive assets and proﬁt sources will be cannibalized by the new technological opportunity (as pointed out by Arrow (1962)); that is, incumbent ﬁrms will be predisposed to not exploit disruptive opportunities because of low incremental proﬁts or high organizational costs of so doing. Thus, they optimally opt for an experiment which involves a high bar for positive news about the technology. By contrast, it is found that entrants, in considering whether to exploit a disruptive technological opportunity, are more likely to adopt experiments with a low bar for exploitation.

[14] This main result supports the positive observations of the past literature on disruption that successful established ﬁrms were likely to rely on high-bar experiments. However, it also demonstrates that their choices in that regard were optimal. Thus, the model here challenges the normative proposition that such ﬁrms refrain from such experiments in evaluating technological opportunities that are potentially disruptive.

[15] 1.2. Plan for the Paper The paper proceeds as followed. In Section 2, the motivating informal literature regarding experimental choice and its normative implications is reviewed. In Section 3, the model is set up, and the initial result regarding the relationship of experimental type to predisposition is proven. Importantly, in that model, experiments involve the same cost to the ﬁrm, and thus, there is no cost advantage to the ﬁrm from choosing any experiment in the feasible set (including ones with a relative balance of false positives and negatives). Thus, ﬁrms are not required to choose between extreme experiments but are allowed to choose the degree of to which they tradeoff false positives and negatives. Section 4 then turns to consider how the type of ﬁrm (incumbent versus entrant) and type of technology (disruptive versus sustaining) impact on experimental choice. In addition, comparative results regarding the different probabilities of these ﬁrms in exploiting technological opportunities are established. Section 5 then turns to consider direct competition and cooperation among incumbent and entrant and how these impact on choices. An appendix explores some dynamic and signaling considerations. It is demonstrated that the main result is reinforced in such strategic environments. A ﬁnal section concludes.