#ProgrammingLanguages
## Definition of a set
Induction is to draw a general conclusion from specific cases. A set defined by induction can be also seen as the following: "if $x$ and $y$ are elements of a set, we can define other elements of said set through some manipulation of $x$ and $y$".

More formally we can define premise $X$ and conclusion $x$, such that "*if $X$ is an element of some set, $x$ must also be an element of the same set*". We can then have multiple tuples of premisses and conclusions, $(X, x)$ such that all tuples of a set we're wishing to define is denoted as $\Phi$. If a set has all elements that satisfy the rules in $\Phi$, we call that set *$\Phi$-closed*, or in other words:
$$
(X, x) \in \Phi \ \mathrm{and} \ X \subseteq A \ \mathrm{then} \ x \in A
$$

Then we can define a set that $\Phi$ defines as the intersection of all $\Phi$-closed  sets:
$$
\bigcap\{A | A \ \mathrm{is} \ \Phi{\text -}closed\} 
$$

### Example
We can define $\mathbb{N}$ with two rules:
$$
(\emptyset, 0)\ , \ (\{n\}, n + 1)
$$

### Alternative notation
For simplicity, we will now write $(X, x)$ as $\frac{X}{x}$. Then, we can define the set of all integer expressions:
$$
\frac{}{n} \in \mathbb{N}, \ \frac{e}{-e}, \ \frac{e_1,e_2}{e_1 + e_2}, \ \frac{e_1,e_2}{e_1 * e_2}
$$
The first rules defines that all natural numbers can be an expression themselves. The second rules defines applying a negative sign to expressions. The rest define addition and multiplication.

### Set-generating function

An interesting observation is that these inductive rules describe *what's* in the set, but now *how* to actually create the set. In other words, the definition is non-constructive. We can tell how to "transform" an arbitrary set to a set we desire, by using $\Phi$. $\Phi$ will define a function $\phi(Y)$, which takes a set $Y$, and returns elements of the set defined by $\Phi$ from $Y$:
$$
\phi(Y) = \{x | \frac{X}{x} \in \Phi, X \subseteq Y\}
$$

Using $\phi$, we can define the set defined by $\Phi$ as the intersection of sets closed by $\phi$:

$$
\bigcap \{X | \phi(X) \subseteq X\}
$$

This set is called the *least fixed point* of $\phi$.

How can we use this "set-generating function", $\phi$, to generate the least fixed point? We just input $\emptyset$ in the beginning, and then successively apply $\phi$:
$$
\begin{aligned}
\phi_0 &= \emptyset \\
\phi_1 &= \phi(\phi_0) \\
\phi_n &= \phi(\phi_{n - 1})
\end{aligned}
$$
Then the least fixed point is the union of $\phi_{0...n}$, that is $\bigcup_{i \in \mathbb{N}} \phi_i$.

Every element in $\phi_i$ is created by applying an inductive rule to $\phi_{i - 1}$, which is created by applying an inductive rule to $\phi_{i - 2}$, and so on. Eventially this finite succession ends with just a set of elements $\phi_0$ that was created first. A *well founded order* is such that for a set with a defined order, if you were to traverse the set against this order, you will eventually reach the bottom of the order.

### Inductive proofs
We'd like to check whether all elements of set $S$ defined by a set of rules $\Phi$, satisfies some property $P$:
$$
\forall x \in S.P(x)
$$
where $P(x)$ denotes that $x$ satisfies $P$.

$S$ has an ordering from it being defined by $\Phi$(remember that a inductively defined set is created from nested compositions of $\phi$). Proof by induction is remarkably simple: 
1. We prove that the bottom of the set, $\phi_0$ satifies $P$. 
2. Under the assumption that all elements before $\phi_i$ order satifies $P$, prove that $\phi_i$ satifies $P$.


