synthesize([[🗄️scott]], [[🗄️charlie]])

# scott's ENTSTRAT book + Bayesian ENT paper

## EXECUTE (~10)
- they knew that they had to continue to execute well to maintain their market position over time.
- For a disruption strategy startup, the ultimate test of your hypotheses is (a) whether you can find customers that are unhappy with the current offerings available from existing firms, and (b) whether you have an idea that can be executed quickly and if you can find evidence for market inertia, organizational inertia, or numerous potentially disruptive technologies facing incumbents.
- Alongside testing that they can create novel value for a customer group traditionally ignored by incumbents, the second step is to determine if the startup is able to execute quickly while evading incumbent detection and reaction.
- Warby Parker has executed quickly and consistently, scaling to more than $100 million in annual revenues and over 500 employees in less than five years.
- existing value chain itself defines a functional role for the venture as a partner which will be successful if the entrepreneur can build an organization that focusses on a core competency allowing it to execute on building functional capabilities
- Disruption strategy executes on key INTEGRATED capabilities (execute quickly and be fast to market to avoid rapid incumbent response) whereas Value chain strategy: execute on key FUNCTIONAL capabilities (execute quickly to bring the best solution for a segment through an existing value chain)
- Execution: There is an alternative to seeking control and that is to focus on execution. This involves choosing not to try and build barriers against future competition but instead choosing to face that competition head-to-head when it arises and being prepared for it. In the 1990s, when Mark Benioff saw the web browser, he wondered why it was typically being positioned as a means for consumers or end-users accessing the Internet. If consumers could use the web to interact with Amazon, why couldn’t salespeople use it to interact with their own customers? Prior to the establishment of his company, Salesforce.com, salespeople, if they used information technology at all, would be constrained to enterprise software solutions for customer relationship management (or CRM) that were housed on internal networks and walled off from the outside world. What is more, these systems were static and would not evolve with user needs. In founding Salesforce, Benioff sought to bring sales into the digital age with a suite of services designed to empower salespeople in their jobs. As part of this, he introduced the notion of ‘software as a service.’ The applications would evolve and change as the needs to salespeople themselves changed. Benioff’s applications would be housed on what we now call cloud computing. They would update automatically. They would be born on the Internet. There was an important strategic element to this plan. Cloud computing was hardly uniquely available to Salesforce. What was to stop competitors from providing their own services should Salesforce prove successful? The answer, really, was nothing and Benioff knew it. That meant that there was no possibility of really building a ‘moat’ around this business. To be sure, he could have made it difficult for users to switch but to do so would require making it hard for them to start using his applications in the first place. But that involved its own costs. Benioff’s vision was to produce a service that was customer-focused and responsive. But if there was limited take-up, that feedback would not be provided and hence, his product development strategy would be at risk. Thus, it made more sense to focus on execution as a path that was consistent with the type of position Salesforce wanted to establish in the market even if that left them vulnerable to future competition. When entrepreneurs say that they are “focusing on execution,” one could be forgiven in thinking that should be an obvious thing for all businesses to do. After all, doesn’t “execution” mean “doing things well and efficiently”? However, all decisions face trade-offs. As entrepreneurs have limited resources and time, when they focus on one thing, they must choose not to do something else. When Benioff decided to focus on ensuring his customers could gain immediate value from his CRM services, that meant that he had to invest in capabilities—software developers, cloud infrastructure and the like—to start developing customer-facing features. It also meant that he could not afford to invest in ways that might cause customers to be locked in for a longer term. These investments in the longer term might diminish the quality of the immediate-term value Benioff wanted to deliver. What then is the plan for profitability and value capture when an entrepreneur invests in execution? After all, they will face competition and, as we saw before, competition can threaten value capture even if competition is great for consumers. The answer is that the entrepreneur intends to profit by having a competitive advantage as a competitor within a market. To be sure, if you produce the same thing as everyone else at the same cost, you should not expect to earn profits. But if you produce a better product (for at least some market segments) at a lower cost, you can earn profits. And if the capabilities that allow you to differentiate your product or deliver it more efficiently require investment and experience cannot be quickly replicated by competitors, then so long as you continue to invest in those capabilities, you can be profitable even in the face of competition and for a long period of time. For Salesforce, they knew that they didn’t have a ‘lock’ on the market. Future innovations would come and compete with them, certainly for specific sales applications. Thus, they knew that they had to continue to execute well to maintain their market position over time.

## EXECUTION (~60)
- For any given idea and entrepreneur, there will be choices that orient the company more towards competition versus collaboration, and other choices that require the company to invest more in execution versus control.
some entrepreneurs have a strong commitment to “openness,” and so, even if it may be more profitable to pursue a strategy consistent with control, an entrepreneur may prefer an execution strategy in line with their internal values.
- some entrepreneurs have a strong commitment to “openness,” and so, even if it may be more profitable to pursue a strategy consistent with control, an entrepreneur may prefer an execution strategy in line with their internal values
- This is important to faculty who often have limited time to really invest in the type of learning that would be associated with execution.
- Instead, you see how founders face a choice of how to manage that idea though execution (at the expense of control) or vice versa, and the impacts that choice has on the idea’s performance.
- more execution-oriented approach with a higher degree of transparency could result in rich feedback-innovation loop or it could result in imitation and a rapid loss in the potential for competitive advantage.
- For a given idea, there will be choices that orient the company more towards competition versus collaboration, and other choices that require the company to invest more in execution versus control.
- A focus on execution centers on developing and continually building capabilities whereas a focus on control involves pre-emptively making investments to protect a market position.
- choosing between CONTROL VS EXECUTION is identifying how to compete - CONTROL (assess the core idea's riks of imitation) VS EXECUTION (consider the venture's ability to stay ahead of competitors)
-- CONTROL1: The part(s) of the core idea most susceptible to replication (or work around) by others is/are ____ (key value drivers) because …
-- CONTROL2: By contrast, the element(s) of the core idea that will be difficult for others to replicate is/are ___(key value drivers) because …
-- EXECUTION1: Execution and rapid iteration in the market will allow the venture to learn/improve upon ___ (key value drivers). This offers advantage over competitors because …
-- EXECUTION2: Executing quickly requires the venture to invest in acquiring and/or developing (key resources and capabilities) …

- a disruption strategy involves a startup that is focused on execution but is oriented towards competition with established firms in the industry
- how likely is it that directly entering the market, emphasizing execution and customer experimentation over establishing and retaining control over the idea, will elicit sufficiently strong customer feedback and learning to allow the startup to scale without eliciting a timely or effective responsive from established players?
- A disruption startup is, by definition, one that has chosen to take a competitive stance against established firms in the industry while choosing to compete through execution.
- the focus on speed in the face of limited resources requires disruption entrepreneurs to locate near talent pools that can support rapid experimentation and execution.
- there was little to stop others from imitating Netflix with a similar approach so Netflix would have to be better and cheaper than rivals by focusing on execution
- Disruption strategy founders need to come to terms with their value creation hypothesis, as choosing a path of customer feedback-oriented execution requires disclosure of their core idea, which in most cases, is an irreversible decision
- 