Speaker 1  0:00  
This is why I'm better than everyone else, right? But then the major competition is that those competitive modes kind of tend to erode, right and disappear. And what good leaders can do. Good leaders embrace the fact that you know what defines your product is not something stationary, something that you lose over time. So you aren't just thinking about your product today, you're thinking about your product a year from now, you're thinking about your product five years and because the product itself is so dynamic, the capabilities on the right hand side that ought to serve this product are also therefore dynamic, right, both in terms of the capabilities that you develop and the way you use existing capabilities, okay? And at some level, the reason all of this is exciting is that this sort of match between how you use capabilities to carve out an interesting product, this is oftentimes non trivial. It's oftentimes not entirely obvious how you might take a fairly limited set of capabilities and carve out a product that your customers perceive as groundbreaking or exciting new, right? And so we'll see many examples of this over the course of the class, obviously, but even this week. Okay, so for instance, Thursday, which is that tomorrow, day after we're going to talk about Uber, and the advantage of having had PhD students that were part of the very early team at Uber, right, people that recently built their staff, and so it'll be kind of fun to kind of talk through how they thought about product, and the evolution of their product and so on and so forth. And it sort of exemplifies you know, this sort of thinking over here, more broadly, you know, the class itself, right? This is the class, really is about a whole bunch of levers. Okay, so the class about levers that let us kind of understand, you know, how to go, Okay, that's interesting. Give me a second. There we go, okay, how to go sort of back and forth, you know, between product and capabilities. And so what are those levers? I'm going to sort of break them down into kind of three or four groups, right? So this first week, we're going to talk about capacity levers. Okay, so basically, as you think about investing in capacity, how should you be investing in capacity? And this is a non trivial issue, because typically capacity is expensive and it's used uncertainty, right? So this is fundamentally one of those tasks of like, you're making a great investment, a serious investment that has many opportunity costs under a great deal of uncertainty. How do you think about that? So I started thinking about that this week. Next week, we'll talk about managing supply chains and inventory, right? Another lever, and this is a lever that's especially important to businesses that at some level require widgets, right? At some level require like, sort of like, a physical flow of physical, physical good, right? Both of these levers, capacity and inventory, are fundamentally supply side levels, right? And so after doing those, we'll transition a bit and talk about a few demand sidelines. Okay, so say, Okay, we understand how we're kind of managing supply. And you know what that means in this framework, let's pivot and think about managing demand. You know, hopefully this kind of lines up in a nice kind of quantitative way, basically, you know, the discussions you've had with Duncan in the first, in the first half of this of the semester. And then what I want to do is I want to leave time to do a couple of sessions on Jenny. Okay, so I mean, it's, it's, it's changing things so fast and so dramatically, even for people that are deeply involved in the area that the piece is kind of insane. And so I thought I'd spend some time talking about that and exposing you to some of that. Okay, and so that's, that's kind of the themes that are yet All right, I'm going to pick up very quickly on the puzzle we left with yesterday. But before doing that, any questions? Ready to kind of dive in. Okay, good, then I'll have questions for you. Fantastic. So this is where we left off yesterday. Okay, so I want to remind you what we discussed yesterday. So yesterday, we talked about Burger King and McDonald's, right? And we asked the same questions. We said, what is their product, right? And, you know, how they what's the strategic positioning of it? Right? We quickly, kind of, like, converged on, look, it's fast food. But really, if I think about the dimensions, right, there's a few dimensions that matter, right? There's time that's important. There's quality, consistency that's important, okay? There's flexibility, you know, that might potentially be important. We're not sure, but it seems like, you know, like it's important. And obviously we can't even be an arm and a leg for this, you know, this creates a notion of price, you know, that kind of goes with this. And after talking about this and kind of comparing these two guys, you know, we saw this pretty interesting trade off, where we said, listen, it looks like Burger King's a little bit slower, right? Like, four minutes for Burger King two minutes for McDonald's, but they provide this kind of extra, extra flexibility. And in fact, that process, right? Is such that it's kind of designed to provide that extra flexibility, right? The idea being that, you know, it's sort of make the stock, you know, for part of the way, and then it's make to order, you know, for the other half the idea being that they sort of make most of the burger, and then when you showed up, they do sort of the end bits of, kind of personalizing the burger too, right? And so even that process was kind of lined up. So okay, look, it's sort of an interesting trade off, little bit slower on the one hand, but a great deal more flexibility. And we could have left it with that, except that when we kind of probed and talked about time, we said, listen, like, two minutes is actually a lot, right? Like, in some settings, two minutes may be nothing, but in this setting, two minutes is a lot, right? And in fact, that applies to both Burger King and McDonald's, right? Because McDonald's, yeah, they're taking two minutes, but the goal was a minute, 30 seconds. And the question was, okay, it's 30 seconds. You're like, yeah, even 30 seconds, right? And you're like, Okay, let's dive in and think a little bit about about timeliness, right? And in thinking about timeliness, we said, Okay, first of all, it doesn't look like there's anything particularly wrong with the process itself, right? The process sort of is sensible. And so perhaps what all we need to do, right, is add more capacity. Right? Perhaps, you know, these processes are too constrained, right? Maybe they were designed at a time, you know, when, you know, business was just kind of taking off, and now it's kind of like, you know, hit its stride. You know, we need to kind of revisit capacity. Maybe that's it. Maybe all we need to do is add more capacity. Okay? And so in doing that, we kind of tried to understand, but what is the capacity available, right? And we said, well, if we look at this system, right, its capacity is really, you know, it can produce 200 burgers an hour and a half 100 Whoppers an hour. Can somebody very quickly, just to kind of get the ball rolling over here, you know, explain to me why the capacity is 200 burgers an hour, 100 Whoppers an hour, you know, what? What about the change and so on and so forth, right? The chain can operate at a faster pace.

Unknown Speaker  7:13  
Yeah. Please.

Speaker 1  7:21  
Perfect, right? It doesn't matter how complicated this process is. Could be like, you know, this complicated Rube Goldberg machine with, like, you know, 100 different steps, but ultimately, the overall capacity is going to be determined by the slowest step, right? In particular, if that's, you know, those guys on the drill, we're just churning out burgers super fast, right? You have like, an explosion of burgers at that seasonable. And that would be a good idea, right? That would result in waste. And this, okay, John,

Speaker 1  7:58  
that's a great question. That's a great question. So that's a great question. So basically, let me repeat Jacques question for the class, right? So we're taking these processes together. And John's question is, it's just the right way to make a burden, and intensities are maybe not right. Maybe there are other ways to make a burden, right? And oftentimes you can get a lot of innovation from asking exactly that question. Yesterday, after class, I shared an email with you guys, a nice little note from the guy, the founder of which is a restaurant across the street. I don't know if you had a chance to read if you got read it, take a look at it right, because it's exactly right. And the interesting tweak intro is that, you know, he went to chat GPT, right? He said, hey, look, here's all the facts, if you have any ideas, right? Apparently, chat GPT came back with, came back with some interesting suggestions, which he experimented and actually go off on a tangent here. What I find very interesting about that article is not so much that article, not so much that, technically, he came up with those ideas. Because I suspect that if you ask his line codes, or he asked some other folks, and he just talked with them, they didn't come up with some ideas, right? Doing the process. I'm sure they had come up with various ideas. I think what was very interesting was that he experimented, right, like so if you might write it, please read the article, right? Right? But the guy actually experimented with the ideas. And he saw, like, over the course of like, one or two different experiments, he converged on much better answers. So I really like your question, right? Because I think ultimately we want this to sort of redesign that process, right? But for now, let's just say, Hey, this is the process. We're kind of stuck with it, right? Because capacity is 200 burgers and on, why might

Speaker 1  9:49  
you be suffered, by the way, any sense of why you might be suffering? Yeah, that's that's like, why can I just do that? Yeah, this replicator graphs by 5000 stores, right? So the cost of making a process change pretty dramatic once it actually gets fixed, right? And this is, by the way, a theme you'll kind of see as well, right? Process isn't something you can just kind of change on a dime oftentimes, right? That's also an issue. So nonetheless, you know, we're stuck with this process the past these 200 burgers an hour, 100 Whoppers an hour. And you know what we said is yesterday. Okay, so 200 burgers an hour, 100 Whoppers an hour, let's contrast this with demand, right? And so we said, look, let's compare this with demand. And we said, let's look at demand at each time. Okay, so I picked, you know, Friday 12 to one right. And Friday 12 to one, you know, demand for I don't understand why. Really frustrating. Sorry, Bill, ah, because it somehow out of charge. That's bizarre. So what I'll do is I'll plug it back in a second right? When I when I talk, what we found was demand for Whoppers was 79 Whoppers per hour, and the demand for burgers was 146 murders per hour. Okay, this was kind of peak demand, okay, Friday, 12 to one, Friday lunchtime, right? And so what that led to was, basically, if I think about the utilization of Whoppers, right? My Whopper capacity, I'm using only 79% of my Whopper capacity at peak, right? 79 divided by 100 and similarly, for the burgers, I'm using only 73% of my burger capacity at peak. It's 146 divided by 200 right? That was like, that's a little bit weird, right? It's weird because, like, people are delayed, and I have spare capacity, right? And you know, that wasn't just the case of Burger King, that was also the case at McDonald's, right, where basic and the case is even worse at McDonald's. So McDonald's, at heat, you were using just about 40% of your capacity, okay? And so this is kind of where we were yesterday, and I wanted you to kind of to on this a bit and sort of help me understand why something like this might even be happening, right? Like, what I do wrong? Think about going through this analysis, right? Like, great. You know, things are running slow, and we're like, of course, yeah, okay. You know what we need to do is, then we need, like, a few extra line cooks. So we need, you know, maybe more equipment or something like that. We've done a careful analysis to understand where to buy that equipment and where to hire those folks. And what we've concluded is it's a little difficult to make a case to hire anyone or buy any right, because even at our busiest time, we're pretty severely sort of under you law. Everybody see that. So what gives, I think, the 201

Unknown Speaker  12:56  
100 capacity of the people making the

Unknown Speaker  12:58  
burger, but then

Unknown Speaker  13:02  
the storage for storage for the finished good

Speaker 1  13:10  
cannot score as much, so we're not told as much about any issues with the finished good area running out of capacity. So it's hard. It's unclear. You know, why that might be the case. The other reason I'm dubious about your claim is that burger king doesn't even operate that way. They carry very minimal amounts of finished goods, right? And they're already trashing things and this and that. So it's unclear that, you know, they're running out of space, right? So hard to hard to see that, but that's an interesting so there's a more meta point, right? So maybe the best is matter point is, okay, maybe our analysis wasn't complete, right? Which is that you looked at the process, but you're missing some key part of the process, okay? So that could be one thing I screwed up in understanding what the process is. This is quite possible, by the way, in the real world, right? So oftentimes they're multimorphic. Oftentimes in the real world, it's hard to get a complete sense of what the process is in the first place. So it could be something like Manuel. Maybe

Unknown Speaker  14:09  
there are, like some labor

Speaker 1  14:17  
got it so effectively, what Manuel is saying is, yeah, maybe that the process, right? But that number 201 100 is wrong, right? Maybe that estimate is wrong and, you know, that's, that's, that's kind of, that's kind of weird. Oh, weird though, that that estimate would be wrong in both places, right? Like, it's kind of strange. So, yes, I think that's the theme of, like, you know, maybe you screwed something up right in the process. They screwed something up with demand. They screwed something up with capacity. So let's assume I didn't screw in your posting, right? But I got the process right, that indeed these people can work. You know, 200 burgers an hour, 100 offers a nine, right? And indeed, the demand is at peak, 79 Whoppers an hour, and 100 employees. And 46 service. So that's assumed.

Speaker 2  15:05  
It feels a little bit like that. Case, you can't take nine women and make babies one month. But maybe there's a certain minimum time that it takes, even that sort of when capacity is not strained, to make a burger. And maybe the way that they have things set up, minimum time is just

Speaker 1  15:19  
four minutes. Okay, good. So basically, what you're saying is process, right? So Brandon has an interesting point. Brendan said, maybe there's process time. So the time it takes right for me to add the pickles and the mayo and the onion is four minutes, okay? And if that time is four minutes, then, as we're looking, irrespective, agitating ink, waiting performance, right? However, that argument wouldn't hold water at McDonald's. McDonald's doesn't operate that way, right? I come in and just pick something off the shelf, so that doesn't so that doesn't quite match, right? And also, format sounds a little large, so good, good to guess that's, that's good, good, good. Nice thinking. Kazuki, I guess the people, sorry, I think the customer, the

Speaker 3  16:05  
customers are not coming to the shop otherwise. So at some point the customer is coming to the restaurant too much more than the capacity. So that may cause some delays, and

Speaker 1  16:17  
then that will so I was careful about that, right? That's why I decided I looked at demand Friday, 12 to one. If I said, Oh, what's the demand on Friday, I'm averaging, like, lunch hour with, like, you know, two in the morning as meetings, right? That's like talking about, like, you know, the average depth of a river or something like that, right? Yeah,

Unknown Speaker  16:51  
so 12 to 1210,

Speaker 3  16:59  
that's called a delay, and the delay will continue to the effect to the next.

Speaker 1  17:04  
I like how. Okay, that's actually really interesting, right? So in fact, let's, let's, let's, let's kind of take a step back, right? So the granularity of my analysis over here was an hourly business, right? Why was it on an hourly basis? Why was it not on a minute by minute Why was I doing this analysis on an hourly basis as opposed to a minute by minute basis? Yeah,

Unknown Speaker  17:35  
initial matrix, I could

Speaker 1  17:42  
always scale that down. That down. That's not a problem. Yeah, but I guess would I be able to confidently talk about demand? Yes? How am I right? Like, I'm not going to get a reliable estimate of what my peak demand is per minute, right? Can everybody see this, right? But you ask me, What's your busiest hour? Sure, right. Like I can, I can get it right. You ask me, What's your busiest minute? That's a bit tough, right? Let me see this. And so for convenience, I picked an hour because, yes, I can reliably get a number. And I could say, you know, whatever. 140 whatever you know, 146 burgers, 79 operas, right? On a minute by minute basis. I can't do that because the cost is sort of random. Okay, so that's one slide, right? That's my announcement. What is the time scale in which customers experience daily? Is it hours, right? So the causes point customers experiencing dead delays on a minute by minute basis. So now, if I kind of scale this down and looked at this on a minute by minute basis, 70 things look really weird, right? So imagine, right, that you said, look, the average demand is point, I don't know 79 who's now, right, but at 1207, a tour bus rolls up, right? And, like, 30 people get off the bus, right? And these 30 people show up, and they're in line, right? Well, so instantaneously, over that minute, over that five minute, right? The man is actually really high, right? It's much higher than 79 ops an hour, or whatever it is, right? So what you can see here is, really, what's going on is, if I zoom in, okay, this is kind of the, this is the picture from yesterday, right? This is McDonald's, by the way, I should have, I should have done Burger King, right? But it's the same story. Okay, so if I, if I were looking at McDonald's, slightly higher demand at this hour by hour level, this is the picture I see, right? Let's say oh, 12 to one. You know, 350 customers, one to two, 225, two to three. You know, whatever, 180 what causes is encouraging us to do is zoom into this, right? So what if we zoom into 12 to one, right? Maybe 12 to one looks something like this, right? And if I zoom into 12 to one, it looks something like this. I've got this like clump of people over here. I have this clump of people over there. And so all of a sudden, because these people don't show up sort of smoothly, right? They show up in like these bursts, right? I have a delay. Everybody, everybody see what's going on. Yeah, okay. What do you think would happen? Okay, if we sort of ran this process in a way where it was sort of fully efficient, utilization was kind of 100% and we had stuff like this,

Speaker 4  20:44  
yeah, yeah, having to, like, change your staffing levels,

Speaker 1  20:49  
yeah, but, like, let's say, you know, add 12 to one, I have capacity to handle exactly 350 people. What do you what do you think would happen here? What sorts of delays would these people experience? Yeah, okay, yeah. So, like, like, let's think about this, right? Like, these guys are, like, so clumped up over there, some of those folks might experience the days like, going to, like, half an hour or something like that, right? Because in some like, your your capacity is matched exactly with your demand, but then this demand doesn't show up smoothly over time. Okay, okay, so this is a little bit weird, right? And this might actually point to why they've got this spare capacity. Okay, I have this spare capacity because you cause this point, you know, people don't show up smoothly, right? They show up in these burrows. Everybody see this? So I have a further problem with this, because, look, talking about managing to a utilization of 100% that's pretty easy to graph, right? That's pretty easy to understand. It's like saying, Listen, I paid for all these expensive people, all these expensive machines and so on and so forth. And I'm using them, right? I don't have any spare stuff hanging around, right? But I'm sure what they're saying is it's McDonald's. Even during your peak hour, on average, you're using only half of the capacity of paper, right? It doesn't, really feel like, like the ideal definition of efficiency. Imagine, imagine going to someone and asking for a serious amount of CapEx. If your utilization is 40% How do you make the case to speed up anything, right? And pay to speed up anything where your utilization is 40% everybody sees it, yeah. So this leaves us in a weird spot. I hope you finally see them, because it's easy for me. If the story was, listen, you know, the utilization is kind of off, right? It's more than 100% okay, this would be an easy problem. In fact, you probably would need to be at MIT to see that problem, right? So managing that, that utilization of 100% that's an easy thing to talk about, but managing the utilization of less than 100% Well, that's kind of weird, right? Like, like you're saying, basically, there's deliberate, like, waste, right? And that leads to sort of the question of, wait a second, so if it's less than 100% how much less than 100 right? All right. So this is going to get more complicated, right? Clearly, we can't look at this with the food we have, all right. In fact, we can't figure out the sense given what we know, we're gonna actually have to dig in more, okay, and so my plan is a little bit more carefully, right? One thing that's going on here that's very clear, right, is that we're dealing with variability, right? What's the difference right between what we expected from our intuition and what's happening? What is the difference between the picture at the top and the picture at the bottom? Right? If the world looked like the picture at the top, and those 79 operas arrived kind of smoothly over the hour. We have no issue. We have no issue whatsoever. The whole issue is because of this variability, right? And so what we're seeing over here, okay, I'll see this repeatedly, so we'll have time to let this sink in. What we're seeing over here is what's making the difference between this being sort of an obvious operation to manage and something that's kind of funky with all these weird things going on, is variability. Okay, the big thing kind of happening over here is variability. And so really, okay, what I'm going to want to talk about is that, okay, and that's like, that notion of variability is going to extend, obviously, well beyond Burger King and McDonald's or whatever, whatever, whatever, right? That's like part of like, physics. Okay, so you build any system where your customers are, you know, human beings, let's say, right, which is a pretty broad set of businesses you're going to deal with variables, okay, and so this is kind of a crucial thing to worry about, and we're going to worry Joe, go ahead race really, is

Unknown Speaker  25:13  
actually built into this question about,

Speaker 5  25:22  
How do we live with literally, yeah, yeah. Like, to what extent is variability, a whole, like reason or a big reason? It is a big

Unknown Speaker  25:34  
Yeah, until we change the system. It seems like a

Speaker 5  25:36  
sociological issue that worked out. Sociological people say is systemic. Others say it's not okay. Do we? Do we have to address what

Speaker 1  25:47  
might be bothering so one waste is not a good thing. I think throwing away food is not pleasant, right? Not a sociologist, it's hard for me to talk about the sociological assets, but as a business, you could say, Look, this is a business. It's built to maximize dollars, right? Maybe that's the wrong objective, right? But nonetheless, it's a business that's built to maximize dollars. The question is, why have they built in this capacity. Okay, so why have they? And Joe's, right? They actually have two types of things going on. Right? One is they've kind of gotten this buffered capacity. They've got more people than they actually need. And one sense of why they need those more people that we can probably already see is this, right, like demand is not smooth on one second. Right? Demand is not smooth. It kind of comes up in this sort of bursty way. And so we want everybody, even if they came off that bus, to still experience like a low delay, because they don't know, right? And so we're built in this extra capacity. On the flip side, it was also talking about having more sort of stuff than we need, right? Having more inventory than we need. And this sort of goes to kind of why we have more inventory than we need. What's kind of going on over there? Some level that, too has to actually do with variability. But to think about that, I would break up these two problems. The second problem, I'll think about more carefully a little bit. So great, great column. There's another hand here, and then I'll come to you. I've to you. Yeah, yeah. Go ahead. Make

Unknown Speaker  27:26  
sure they understand you're basically saying

Speaker 6  27:30  
invariability That we think they thought that they're ready for peak hour, but

Speaker 1  27:36  
they were not, actually. They didn't have the capacity for the peak time, not an hour. But That's right, 20 minutes, that's right. And the deeper problem, if you think about that, is, as soon as, like, these peaks occur on a minute by minute basis, like back of the envelope, thinking it doesn't work, right? Because if I ask you the question, Hey, what's your book busiest minute? That sounds insane, right? Maybe very, very difficult for me to predict. Oh, you don't want three tour busses might show up, and those three tour busses

Speaker 6  28:04  
have like 94 these are averages, right one day, but these are averages for every day, right? So, so the manager might know, who knows that we're like this? Well, if we're okay,

Speaker 1  28:20  
I see. So you're questioning whether, can we actually get data on a minute by minute basis? I think given the scale of the system, that's going to be pretty hard, right? Just think about the variability, right? What causes the variability, ultimately is traffic and this so on and so forth. These things are fundamentally pretty variable, even if you think this is predictable, we'll talk about finding things that are not like, what's your busiest second of the

Speaker 1  28:50  
day? Oh, sorry. And then Carlos, right, there's something machines,

Unknown Speaker  29:02  
where demand was not there.

Speaker 1  29:10  
I think that's exactly what. How should we even be thinking about optimal, right? Because, if everything was predictable, optimal is easy. Have as much capacity as you have demand at that right? Like there's a perfect match between supply and demand. Let me, let me just say this again. So also gets to Michael's point, okay, if you have perfect visibility of demand, right, and you have infinite control on flexing your supply, optimal is easy, right? Supply should exactly match the match, because you know exactly what demand is going to be, and you're going to match your supply to be exactly at that demand, right? So often very The reason things are hard right in practice is nobody has a perfect field, right? Demand is highly uncertain, and second, when it comes to capacity, you can't flex your capacity on a second by second basis, right? And so all of a sudden, because of the frictions of the real world, right, this problem goes from being like something a child could do, right, to something that suddenly, where this question of that you're asking of like, okay, so what is right is pretty non interpretive, and I think that's kind of what I want to get into. I'll take one more question. And then one push.

Speaker 7  30:25  
So before the beginning of this question, I was thinking how to maybe, with what we have to try to come to a solution. So I was thinking maybe a 10 series, sort of like prediction, forecasting. But I guess that really only did raise,

Speaker 1  30:36  
like, yeah, because I think the whole point of the gear is to embrace the fact that this, by the way, you should be the best at predicting stuff, right? If something is predictable, it's a safe not to acknowledge that, right? At some level. However, the point we're making on here is that irrespective of how good you are at predicting, there's always going to be a big chunk of stuff that you're never going to be able to predict.

Speaker 7  30:59  
Yeah, so I was thinking about the pulses, for example, like, if that's something that that's something that, even if you have the same day or a season for weeks or breakdowns or times, I think, yeah, those unexpected events are, yeah,

Speaker 1  31:11  
yeah. Okay. So, so this is where we are, okay, just to kind of take stock of where we are, right? So what we said is, first of all, like, okay, point number one here is the most important point at some level of anything we'll do in this class, right? All the details in this class don't really matter as much as kind of starting with the customer and defining product. Okay, that's the number one thing we'll always do, right? What does the customer care about? Right? Because if you're not focused on that, like, all this stuff that you're doing is sort of irrelevant. Sort of irrelevant. Two given that we've understood what the customer cares about, we talked about understanding the design of the process. How is our process set up? Right? This goes back to some of the questions early in this class. Is this the right process? Are we looking at the right process? So process design, that's an important thing, even understanding your process to begin with, right? And three is kind of what we started doing with this burger king McDonald stuff, right? So you're saying, okay, great, we've got the process. Is it optimized? You know? Is it optimism? Okay? Is it running in kind of an optimal way? An optimal way? Over here is a tricky question to answer for a multitude of reasons, right? One is variability that we've just sort of talked about, right? And second is controlling that variability is kind of hard. Okay, so this is kind of where we are. So what I like to do is start today. All right, what about you to start today with just sort of wrapping our arms a little bit around variability. Okay, so we're going to take, like, a tippy toe into kind of the waters over here, right? And I'm gonna make the problem hard actually, as we sort of go along. Okay, so to start today, I want to talk about Jet Blue. All right, I'm sure, like you guys, traveled a lot. Great. I traveled a lot, what's the, what's the worst thing that can happen?

Speaker 1  33:10  
Let's assume you're gonna, you're gonna be sick, right? What's, what's the worst thing that can happen? Let's say you want to go home, right? Leo, I think

Unknown Speaker  33:21  
the worst thing that

Speaker 1  33:29  
can happen is when you actually get on the plane and you wait in taxi, and the crew runs out of time, and that's kind of what happened here. But I'm starting saying, like, just like at a macro level, right? Would you prefer? Yeah. So, so let's say everybody's doing okay, like, there's a storm or whatever, whatever, right? Like, would you rather you get home, but you get home four hours late? Would you rather that the flights canceled and you get home the next day? Most people would say, okay, that's kind of how this industry works. Okay? People don't like canceled flights. Cancelations are like the worst, right? And hopefully that's like, pretty natural, right. Like, to me, there's no way I want to deal with the cancelation right? Because you have stuff, you have a job, you have right? Like, if you lose a day, I mean, that's a bit of a mess, right? Okay, so cancelations are kind of the worst, right? And that's important context for what happened at Jet Blue, right? So, so this is actually, I think it was February 14, February 14, right? So, Valentine's Day. So there's our Valentine's Day. There was a storm that was kind of in a rolling into the East Coast. If you, if you're not from here, you'll see this. It'll, happen, I promise. But you get used to it too. You even come to love it, maybe Okay, or maybe not. Storms, but in any event, right? So there's a storm rolling in, and, you know, all the other airlines, right? They proactively canceled a bunch of flights and technically said we're not going to cancel. Yeah, we might be late, but we're not going to cancel. So first thing I want to ask is, why did they do that? Choose not to cancel?

Speaker 1  35:21  
Why would people reflect poorly? Like all the other airlines have cancer, okay, good. They're differentiating in what way, good, good. So reliability and timeliness for whatever, right? So basically, if I sort of think about this industry, there's some dimensions of value. Probably one of the core dimensions of value is being on time, right? And on the scale of being on time, the worst thing you can do is cancel, right? So these guys said, Well, this is, like, part of our core kind of thing. We're not we're just not going to cancel. Let me ask this is a more kind of, like, poofy kind of question, right? There's no sort of science to this, but, so that's one reason, right? Why? I mean, like, imagine that you're kind of like, like, running things at this place, right? You're, let's say you're like, a, you know, you're the ground manager at JFK, right? And all the other managers if canceled, right? Like, you understand, great, you know, whatever, we have to be on time, blah, blah, blah, how do you have the gall to, like, not cancel flights? That's a weird question, but you see what I'm asking, right? Like you're working, you're working for this airline. Imagine you're the person making this call, right? And like, your codified to Delta, and like American so on and so forth. And you're like, we're gonna do this. Where do you think that comes from?

Speaker 1  36:58  
Yeah, but if I'm that ground manager, I probably don't care about that, right? Because the costs are gonna be much higher otherwise, right? Manage so much other stuff. I guess it's the jet. I guess I'm very simple. Like, those costs don't go out in my pocket. Like, companies, they can, don't cancel. That's my whole point. So like, American and delta, it's not like they're swimming in cash. Okay? They also offer so, you know, if these lead, lead guys are kind of like canceling, how did this, how did these players have the goals that not cancel? Yeah, Everybody see what I'm saying here, right? It's a little bit of a wishy washy question. I understand that, but hopefully you appreciate what I'm saying, right? It's like your competitors, who are much bigger than you are much more serious they're doing something you're not doing. It feels a bit bizarre.

Speaker 7  37:56  
Danilo, yes, maybe that's the differentiation that they chose.

Speaker 1  38:03  
That's part of it. That was what she was saying, right? They want to be on time. It's very important. John,

Speaker 4  38:08  
so I think what you're saying about things that it has to do with objectively not wanting to move about

Unknown Speaker  38:19  
variability and whether it's very variable,

Speaker 4  38:23  
just blocking out an entire period where you expect the windows,

Speaker 1  38:29  
yeah, okay, so it's like, like, they're sort of, you know, super scrappy, and they don't Want to let go of any piece of revenue. Yeah?

Unknown Speaker  38:40  
I would also different

Unknown Speaker  38:48  
set of steps to fully

Speaker 1  38:50  
cancel. So maybe it has to good. So certainly on the downer American side, it definitely has to do the process. From this side, maybe it takes a lack of processes Correct. Maybe it's a question that follows up, right? Why is there a lack of process?

Speaker 3  39:08  
But that's not, that's not an argument

Speaker 1  39:14  
against having a processor. Why don't they have a process? Irrespective my business model, it's hard to have an argument. Against having processes. I see where your head is, but see what I'm saying. Yeah, what's a startup? So that startup act, you kind of explains a lot of this, right? It's still, like, running like a startup, like, everybody's a hero, right? And so, yeah, and everybody's a hero, you kind of take on, like, a lot of stuff. And just like, you just, like, do it, right? Like you just, you just do it, like, that's it. And so that's, that's part of the the excitement, right? Often, another side to the excitement, which is what happened over here, right? So today. So my point in making the point I just made, is, right? I want to say it's not like these guys are idiots. It's not like, oh my god, we're morons, right? No, there's a reason. If they're operating like a startup, they're super scrappy, to John's point, right? They're not going to leave any dollar on the table. They're going to, like, bust their ass to get you home, right? And that's the attitude. And everybody's on board, and everybody's going to make it happen. But, you know, Mother Nature doesn't really care about that, right? And so, you know what happened? Happened, which is that, you know, if you read the case, you know, as Layla was suggesting, people got on a plane, and those planes never really took off, right? They got stuck on the runway, actually, and then the weather got so bad that they couldn't return back. So there are all these people that were stuck on planes for like seven, eight hours, you know, at GFK, which is total disaster. And actually the disaster is even worse, which is that, like, basically, the guy that was running the airline at that time, David Millman, he eventually had to quit, like, this caused such a furo, so to speak, right? Like, and the stock market, like, they really wanted ahead, right? Because the argument was, you don't have the startup excuse anymore. Okay, you're like eight years old, you know, you're a publicly traded company, you can't do the show. And so yeah, the guy lost his job, and you know that was that. Okay, so that's the context, going into kind of the question, I want to ask, right. So, basically this happened in 2000. So basically, this happened in 2007 All right, so you can imagine that they're pretty sensitive to all this stuff. Now, they lost their CEO as a result of this, and now they're asking a very simple operational question, which relates to de icing. I guess is the case I'd asked you to read. So some of you know what deicing is. Hopefully, a lot of you know what the icing is. But if you don't, right? So your plane has like, like, frost accumulation on the wings and other things they spray. They need to get it off. And so they have to de ice the plane. You have to spray it with chemicals right, to get all that stuff off right. And that happens a lot at places, in places like Boston, right? So even on a day where there isn't a storm, right, because overnight, you know, there's been some precipitation, and you've got this frost that's accumulated on the wing, you have actually de ice the plane. Okay, and one thing with airports, right is airports, almost every airport I know is like, sort of out of capacity, right? Because all these airports were built at a time when air travel wasn't as big as it was, anywhere near as big as it is today, right? So they built these airports, they bought out plenty of sites, but today all these airports are, like, just like, you know, straining at the airport, right? And so they're just using enough space. It could be a lot of money. So even if you want, like, like space to be ice, right? There, needs the icing pads and things like that, it's a non trivial investment to make, okay? And so that's where these guys are at JetBlue. They're asking themselves, on the one hand, should we invest in deicing, right? And one reason where you know you might blindly want to say, I don't really care about any analysis, please invest right? Would be this 2007 business, right? Yeah, you can't be late. On the other hand, you also need to make money, right? And profit margins in this industry are horrible. So at this point in time, like, oh, wait, first of all, crisis, right? Financial crisis. So demand had taken a bit of a hit, right? Fortunately for Jet Blue, it wasn't nearly as bad, because the demand wasn't as biased towards business travel, okay, but nonetheless, that the economy wasn't doing great, right? And so profit margins were bad. They were sub 1% right? So if you're in a business where your profit margin is some 1% this starts getting to be a really tricky testing, right? Valentine's Day crap from last year, no profit. Make a loss this year. Where do we stand? And so here's what I'd like you guys to do. I'd like you guys to spend maybe two minutes just quickly collecting your thoughts on whether they have enough deicing capacity. Okay, so you read through this stuff, I'd like you to spend two minutes with your groups. Okay, just, just sort of getting to the bottom of Do they have enough deicing capacity? Okay, spend two minutes.

Speaker 2  44:30  
They tonight, thanks for calling your name, especially in this side I kind of Seattle, Yeah, yeah, Thank You. Yeah.

Unknown Speaker  46:40  
We need to

Speaker 8  46:48  
Know how much, how many lives per year, per hour, immediate conditions. It takes 15 minutes for

Unknown Speaker  47:03  
for one deicing, I think the whole thing is like an hour ago, right? Because, like, you have to put it in

Speaker 8  47:08  
and pull it out five from

Speaker 8  47:17  
15 minutes to an hour, or it means one team can do from four plane to one plane, and they have four kids. Okay. That means, like, initial condition, uh,

Speaker 1  47:35  
okay, so I like, how you think about this? Look, I'm gonna do a simple back of the envelope thing. I want to understand what my demand is. I'm gonna understand what my capacity is. And that's, that's my answer, right? So this is kind of like, like, roughly the analysis I had, okay, which is that basically, with four de ICERs, therefore deicers, right? So with those four deicers, roughly, if you account for everything, we could disagree on this, right? It takes about an hour when you account for, like, all of the stuff associated with managing the deicing on the plane, it's about an hour and you have four de ICERs, so you can do four planes an hour, right? Demand, right is 58 flights over the course of the day. Okay, so 58 flights taking off on the course of the day. Let's say you have to de ice all these right? And so if I look at this, you know capacity is four planes an hour, demand is 2.41 flights an hour, demand is quite a bit below capacity. And despite this, you know, they're seeing, you know, up to 200 some odd flights, you know, canceled in light, moderate snow over the course of a season, right? It's not in a day, but over the course of a season, you see a reasonable number of flights being canceled. So despite demand being well below capacity, there's a ton of flight cancelations happening because of delays caused by the ice. So how could that be? Let's get a new voice

Speaker 9  49:04  
the variability during some when the snow essentially there. Some of the flights were kind of compressing. There's the chart where there was certain periods of time over four good,

Speaker 1  49:15  
right? So flights don't take off smoothly over the course of the day, right? So this is their this is their schedule. Yeah, it's 58 flights over the day. But that's a crazy way of looking at right? Because, again, you don't, you don't perceive delays on a one day, on the unit in the units of days, right? Hopefully not. You perceive delays and units are hopefully minutes, maybe ops, right? And so this is kind of the pattern, you know, Angie James point like it starts at 6am and at 6am there's not four fights, there's six flights leaving, right? And then at 7am there's seven flights scheduled to depart, and at 8am there's four. At 9am there's even four there's eight. It kind of cools down in the middle of the day and then trying to fix up again, right? So why? Because this is people traveling out for business, and this is people going back home after doing business, right? That's like, roughly, that's why the schedule looks the way it looks. So this is actually problematic, right? Why is this picture problematic? If I can only do four flights an hour, what's going to happen? So what happens at the end of hour? One, there's two flights that are delayed, right, at least an hour, right? Because neither of those guys can start processing, because, all you know, four of them are in process. So the first there's two flights from the start of the day that are going to be delayed and out. Everybody see this, right? Okay, 7am it gets even worse, right? There's three flights now from 7am that you can't fit in, and then two more flights that are gone because of the earlier thing, right? So now there's more people waiting, right? Yeah, we don't get much respite because, again, there's four flights that kind of come in, right? I can only process four, right? So again, you know, I still have this build up nine. It gets even worse, right? And so by the time you kind of get through all of this, these guys have actually been delayed through much lunch time by something like this, right? You can, you can sort of see what's happening. Okay, so this is a form of variability. It's a particularly easy form of variability, right? Because this variability is actually predictable, right? It's not like the two of us showed up, right? Like the flight schedule was available six months in advance, by law, okay? And so this is predictable variability and so, but nonetheless, you can see how this results in weights and delays and all this sort of stuff, right? And so here's the plan, okay, what I'd like to do today, right, in the spirit of understanding and dealing with variability, okay, it's kind of rocking predictable variable, right? So the variability is predictable. What can I do, right? Let's understand that, right? Then we'll make it harder. Next time, I'll say, Okay, what happens when the variable is unpredictable? Now, what can I do then? Right? Let's try it. We'll put all that together, and we'll think about it really hard. Okay, but in kind of doing predictable and unpredictable sort of along the way, think about things like jetbu and Uber and McDonald's and so, okay, so that's, that's kind of my plan. Now again, right? The mental model I have over here, right? This is all about variability. And so the mental model I have is, variability exists on a spectrum. Okay, so what's that spectrum? You know, one one end of the spectrum is no variability, right? And this is kind of where most of us actually think, okay, when people do back of the envelope, thinking, that's kind of where they are no variable, right? That most natural thing to think about, and, you know, at no variability. What's ideal utilization, 100% right? So the URL equals 100% right? That's perfect. Okay, so then, you know, we have what we're going to talk about, which is predictable, variability, okay, and I'm going to talk about a specific tool to think about this today. Okay, these are build up diagrams, and this is kind of also back of the envelope, just slightly more sophisticated back of the envelope stuff, okay? Next time on Thursday, right? We're going to talk about unpredictable variability. Okay? And here we're going to talk about queuing theory, which is actually pretty sophisticated stuff. Okay, so while it's sophisticated, the ideas are actually, like, just beautiful, right? They're kind of ideas we can take with us, you know, strategic tools, which is what I want to talk about. And, of course, you know, outside of all of this, there's something I'm going to call catastrophic variable, right? So this is the stuff where, you know, it's these sort of Black Swan type things, right? You have a war, okay? Or you have sudden tariffs, or you have a pandemic, right? This has got catastrophic variable, and that happens too. That's life and so on that catastrophic variability piece, right? That's a little harder to address. And so in this class, I'm going to kind of talk about that restricted kind of thinking about resilience in supply chains. So later in the class, we'll talk about resilience in supply chains, kind of a pretty important strategic topic. We'll talk about that next week or the week after but more generally, I think dealing with catastrophic variability requires kind of a pretty deep understanding of risk management. Okay, and I'm not going to talk about risk management in this class, but if you're interested in risk management, calling the client Rex, I love you, teaches a wonderful two day class on this. I think you're in ISP and reds have spent before coming to MIT, right? So I've spent like 15 years in like, IVF Scott very carefully about, you know, dealing with all sorts of events, okay? And he has a framework that companies around the world, okay? And so that might be something you find, that you find interesting and exciting if you care about those trends, okay? That's, that's on the very right. So this was kind of just a step back from just getting a good, you know, a bird's eye view of where we are. Let's dive into this. Okay, okay, so I'm going to follow, like, I have process okay, like, like, if there's one thing I do is process, right? So I want to process phrase, right? I want to play both of those. So this might play really silly, right? And this playbook is going to apply any time variability, right? So step number one is, what's the process? Right? Let's figure out what the process is. We can tell you the process is so screwed up that it's like staring them in the face, right? Like, what's wrong? So first thing, let's look at the process. Right? If you read the shyboard article, that's exactly what that time so step one, understand the process. We kind of did that for McDonald's and Burger King, right? We'll do this in other cases as well. Step two is also something we did, right? If you have the process in place now understand, right? What is the capacity of this process? Like we did, 200 burgers an hour, 100 Whoppers an hour, and what's the maximum demand that this process is going to see? Okay? What do these things look? Right? And as a function of these two things, what we want to do is congestion analysis, okay, this is something we've not done, and we're going to start doing this today, right? So we want to understand, as a function of the process and demand and capacity, what are the delays our customers experience? Okay? So we want to understand that map, right? We want to understand how demand and supply result in congestion. Okay? And today, we're going to understand that mapping of demand and supply leading to congestion in the setting where variability, like jet right? The next time, as I said, we'll make it harder, and we'll try and understand it, you know, the context of what happens when things are unclip and, of course, none of this would be complete without actually informing decisions with all of this. And we'll talk about that actually starting today as well. Okay, everybody get with where we are. Okay, so let's dive into this congestion analysis piece. Okay, all right, so I want to introduce some notation. All right, I know there's Greek letters here. Don't be scared, right? And you can ask, Why? Why is he using Greek letters? We're not Greek. At least I'm not Greek. I know there's at least one Greek

Speaker 1  57:26  
person, but the majority of us are not Greek right? Using these Greek letters. It's because everybody uses the Greek letters, okay? And so since everybody uses these Greek letters, I want to invent my own stuff, right? So if you say lambda, everybody will know what it is, okay? So the way we want to think about processes, if you want to think about processes, as we build up these like little Lego blocks. Everybody knows what Legos, so I want to think about processes as being built up these little Lego blocks. Okay, what does a Lego block happen? Right? So a Lego block is a picture right at the top. Over there, the Lego block has a few things associated, okay. So first, it has demand, right? That's the stuff coming in. That's lambda, okay, what's interesting about the land is the rate at which people are coming in, right? The rate at which the job is coming in, whatever. Okay, and we're going to call that with the Greek letter, lambda, okay, um, the second quantity associated with this lego.is the rate at which you can get the job, right? So that's mu, okay, that's the Greek letter mean. And so what we're saying is jobs can come in at a rate lambda, and I can serve those jobs at rate. Mu, right. So, for instance, if jobs come in at, I don't know 79 Whoppers an hour, that's my lambda, and I can process jobs at, you know, I don't know 100 Whoppers an hour, the 100 is my mu, right. That's lambda, okay. Now, given that lambda and mu, right, there are some interesting things we can look at, right? One is to understand utilization, which we intuitively already did, right? You don't need me to write all this fancy nonsense. It's a pretty intuitive thing to say, like that. You know, 79 ops an hour to process. 100 my utilization is 79% guess that's utilization. The other interesting thing, which you'll see in a second, which is clearly important, is lambda is not always going to be below mu, right? We already saw that with that Jet Blue picture, right? Lambda could be above mu. What happens when lambda is above mu? Well, you have a line, right? You have people waiting, and that line obviously translates to delays and so on and so forth. Okay. So two interesting quantities with this Lego block, lambda and mu, right, demand and supply, demand and the rate at which you can serve that demand. And given lambda and mu, I can talk about utilization, all right, what I want to do today is talk about a very, very simple back of the envelope tool. Okay, to think about given one of these Lego blocks, given one of these systems. Okay, how do I translate what's happening in the system in terms of demand and supply on the one side to the delay customers are going to experience on the other? Okay? So again, in simple terms. What I'm saying is, look, I've got this system over here where I've got all these planes taking off over time. I know my device in capacity, right? What does that translate to, to the delay my customers are going to expect? Does that make sense, right? Without this actually happening, right? I want to understand like in priority, right? If this were the demand, and this is the capacity at which I can run the system, what the label my customers actually experience? Okay, these build up diagrams are a tool to do this. Now, they're a very simple tool to do this, okay? In particular, why they call build up diagrams, right? The idea is to sort of think about work as being like a liquid. You can think of work as being like water or something like that, right? And so imagine, if you will, okay, one way of sort of thinking about this is, imagine, this is like a tank. Okay, there's a tank, and you're pumping water into this tank at a rate lambda, right? So I'm pumping water into this tank at a rate, lambda, right? And I'm pumping water out of this tank at a rate, mu, yeah. So if I can, if water is kind of pumping out slower than, you know, the rate at which I'm pumping it in, the level of water in the tank is going to rise. Then if I speed up the rate at which I'm pumping it out, it'll fall, and so on and so forth, right? And so build up. Diagrams are kind of like a tool to look at, like the level of water in the tank. That's what this tool actually does. Okay? So really, that's it, right? That's, that's kind of the simple idea, all right? And so what I'd like to do is two things. So first, I want to work with one of these build up diagrams in a super simple, completely made up content. Okay? So, no business, no nothing like it's a completely toy content, nothing to do with real world right. Now, what I want to do is I want to take what we learned and I want to apply to that Jack blue thing that we looked at. Okay, that's it. That's all I wanted. Okay, so let's look at one of these build up diagrams. Instead of talking about it in the abstract, let's actually do it. Okay, all right, so here's my toy example, right? That's a totally ridiculous example, right? It has to do with fishing, of which I know a lot. Absolutely I'm trying to learn, though it's kind of fun. I don't know if anybody fishes. Does anybody fish? Okay, it's actually fun. Lots of fun buying all the stuff you need. That stuff I like more. There's all kinds of gear you can buy. It's really fun. Anyways. So back to back to work. Okay, so here's, here's the story, right? So imagine that you're running, like, a cannery, or something like that. Okay, so New England coast is full of these things, or they used to, used to be full of these things, right? So basically, a cannery something where, you know, fish comes in, and you process the fish, put it in cans, inside the cans, presumably, okay. And so there's the idea that the ships arrive, they arrive over time, and you process the fish, and then you sell this process fish, right? Except that, you know, there's a rate at which the fish arrives, and there's a rate at which you can process the fish, okay, so now let's say that the fish arrives, okay, at at this rate, okay, so the fish arrives at a rate of 3000 tons per month. Okay, so these ships arrive, and they bring you fish at a rate of 3000 tons a month, okay? And you can process the fish at a rate of 3000 tons. Okay, so I have two questions for you in this setting, right? What's the average inventory you carry in the freezer, zero, right? I absolutely don't need to use the freezer, because I can kind of use the fish at the rate at which it's coming okay. And then my second question for you is, what's the throughput of this system, right? And when I see throughput, what do I mean? What I mean is, imagine somebody was standing on the other side, okay, you were standing here, and you were looking at the rate at which stuff comes up. Okay, so what's the throughput of this system? 3000 pounds a month. Pretty simple, because that processing facility is constantly running, right? So it's running at 3000 pounds a month. Through this whole thing, throughput is going to be 3000 pounds a month. Or standing here, I see fish coming out, 3000 pounds a month. Everybody doing this. Now, let's make this interesting. Right? So let's say like fishing is seasonal, right? In line notes, so fishing is seasonal, so because fishing is seasonal, right, let's say that the rate at which the fish comes in changes over time, okay, the first four months, okay, the fish comes in at 3600 tons a month, right? And the next four months, it goes up even more. It keeps fishing. Season goes through 4800 tons. And then we get into the winter, when fishing kind of slows down. And, you know, fish comes in only at 600 tons of at least, the picture kind of changes, all right? Do you think we need to use the freezer here? Almost certainly need to use the freezer, right? So here's what I want to understand. Okay, let's try and understand what the how much inventory are we going to carry in this freezer, right? The second thing I'd like to understand what's the throughput of the system going to look like. And we clearly can't just do that by staring at this, right? So let's actually do this carefully, using that this build up diagram ID, okay? And so what I want to do is accept it. I want to produce one of these build up diagrams. Let's do exactly that, okay? And we're going to do it slowly, step by step. Okay. Here's my idea. Okay, I want to plot what the level of fish looks like in the freezer over the 12 months of year. Let's do that. Okay, so let's start with understanding what the level of fish would look like in the freezer over 12 months, right? Now, let's start with like months zero to four, right? So in the first four months, right? Fish is coming in at 3600 tons of per month, right? And I can process it at what rate, at 3000 tons per month. So my build up, right? Lambda minus mu, that's equal to 600 tons per month, right? And where do these 600 tons a month go into the freezer? Right? The rest of the 3000 I cross, right? There's an excess of 600 tons a month, which I cannot process. I dump that in the freezer. Everybody go with this. Okay, so now, if I look at the level of fish in the freezer, it's going to build up slowly, right? What's the level of fish in the freezer going to be at four months? How many tons of fish in the freezer? Yeah, 2400 tons. Right? Why? Because, basically we're saying, Hey, I'm building up at 600 tons a month over four months. So 600 times four is 2400 tons, right? So, okay, I've got 2400 tons in the freezer at four months. All right. Now let's look at months four through eight. Okay, so now fish is coming even faster, right? So if I think with a lambda minus mu, that's 4800 minus 3000

Speaker 1  1:07:23  
that's 1800 tons, right? So fish is kind of coming in now at 1800 tons a month. And I'm going to kind of add fish over four months. Over here, I'm adding fish at a rate of 1800 tons a month over four months. 1800 times four is 7200 right? And so I'm going to put in an extra 7200 tons of fish into the freezer. Make sense? And what's that slope going to be? By the way, is it going to be shallow or steeper, steeper, right? Because I'm putting in things faster. Okay, so I'm putting in things faster. So maybe the slope looks something like this, right? And basically, what we're saying is we've added an extra 7200 tons. Everybody good at this, right? And so now at month eight, we have 2400 plus 7200 7200 9600, tons of fish in the freezer. Yeah, good with this. Okay, so we have a lot of fish in the freezer at month eight. Now let's think about what happens months eight through 12. So months eight through 12 fish is only arriving at 600 tons per month, right? And I can process that 3000 tons per month, so my build up, right? My lambda, minus mu, my build up is negative 2400 tons per month, right? 600 minus 3000 What am I going to do with that extra processing capacity? What is that negative 2400 going to do? What will you do with the negative 24 freezer? Work on the stuff in the freezer, right? So basically, I use 600 tons per month to work on the fish text coming in, and I use the remaining 2400 to work on the stuff in the freezer, right? 2400 times four, luckily for us, is 9600 okay. And so right in time, right at month 12, you have zero fish left in the freezer, right? Why? Because 2400 times four is 9600 and exactly 9600 tons of fish in the freezer. Okay, everybody? Okay with this picture, right? This is the picture of what the level of fish would look like in the freezer, right? In this, in this little example, we've been playing, all right, good. Let's ask a few questions. What's the throughput? What's the throughput? 3000 how do you how do you see that it was 3000 so quickly? Yeah, right. Like, I'm constantly using all of my processing capacity, right? Like, let's think about this, right? So Brandon saying, listen for the first four months, of course, I was working at 3000 tons per month because I was putting things in the freezer, right? The next four months, same story. Of course, I was working at 3000 tons per month, because I was putting whatever, 1800 tons into the freeze every month, right? Here, it starts getting a little bit tricky, right? Because we're saying, Listen, 600 tons a month coming in, right? So I'm using 600 tons a month, right? The rest of the 2400 tons of processing capacity I'm using for the freezer now, luckily, I ran out of capacity. I ran out of stuff in the freezer exactly at 112 so as a result, I was constantly working, using all of my capacity all the way to 112 yes, if we had run out earlier, our throughput might have been lower. Everybody. Everybody see this. And so, for instance, one way you might have run out earlier is, what if you had, like, a capacity limit in the freezer, right? If you could only store 4000 tons of fish, fish in the freezer, right? You might run into a problem, right? You might need to send ships away, right as they came in, and then, when you got over here, you only have 4000 to pump in the freezer, your throughput would go down. Okay, so this is something I'll ask you to kind of sketch and think about later, right? But in this particular case, two plus easy, right? It's exactly 3000 tons per month, as Brendan pointed out, Everybody good with that? Okay? So next thing I want to ask, okay, I don't need a number for this. I just want like, how we might do, okay, how would you find out what the average inventory we carry over 12 months. So graphically, what does that correspond to? So if I ask you for the average inventory in the freeze over the course of the 12 months, right, what does that correspond to? Graphic,

Unknown Speaker  1:11:44  
yes. Bucha,

Speaker 1  1:11:47  
yeah, good. So it's sort of the area under the curve divided by 12, right? And the area under the curve is what it's the area of this you know of this triangle, this trapezoid and this triangle, right? So I'm not going to kind of bore you with calculating areas of triangles and trapezoids, but I'll write down the areas, right? So this is 4800 This is 24,000 Okay, the area of this shape, the area of this last triangle, is 19,200 Okay, so the area under this curve is 4800 plus 24,000 plus 19,200 which is 48,000 Yes, that's area. What are the units of area?

Speaker 1  1:12:36  
Yes, tons, tons month, right? Because it's not right, it's two units, right? It's tons over time, right? Like the X the y axis is tons, the x axis is months. And you're multiplying those two units, right for area. So the units of area is ton months. Okay, weird, like, a little funky, right? So we've got 48,000 ton months of fish, right? And, you know, basically, we're sort of saying we need to divide this. If I ask you for average inventory, let's call average inventory out, right? It's 48,000 tons, month, ton, months, whatever, divided by 12 months, right? So the months cancel, right? And 48,000 divided by 12, that's 4000 tons. Does this make sense, right? So the average inventory we carried in this freezer that went up and down, but the average inventory we carried in this freezer was 4000 tons. Any questions about this? It's pretty, hopefully pretty straightforward, okay, I've not done anything fancy. Yeah. It's

Speaker 1  1:13:56  
9600 only at month eight, right? So I'm saying over time on average, how much inventory was in the freezer, right? And so it's going to be some number between zero and 9600 right? Because it started at zero, it went up to 9600 went all the way back down to zero. And down to zero. What's the average? Let's say the average is 4000 Okay, so the average amount of inventory would carry 4000 tons. Here a more interesting question. All right. So let's say you care about the freshness of the fish. You care about how long the fish was frozen. No fish frozen too. So select the delay experienced by the fish. So this, should I talk about freshness? How do you think about the freshness of the fifth. What's the average freshness

Unknown Speaker  1:15:00  
of the fifth? Right? Yeah, would be just the average monthly in inventory. The

Speaker 1  1:15:08  
average, yeah, yeah. That's right. Like, on average, how long was the fish in inventory? That's the same question. Yeah, that's what I'm asked, right? On average, right? Like, how long was a piece of fish in the freezer before, before it was frozen? That's an important question, right? Because that's the delay you experience a Jet Blue or whatever. Little bit messy, a little bit tricky. And in order to understand this, okay, I want to say something quite silly, and then come back to this picture, right? So let me see the silly thing first. Alexi hum, right, so let me say the silly thing first. All. Right, here's the silly thing. Okay. This is me just cleaning up my, my, my work, because here's this silly thing, okay, here's what I'm saying. Forget about all the stuff on the slide, just focus on the first month, right? So let's say the school takes in 300 MBA students in a year, right? And these students stick around for two years. So how many students in the system would have 600 right? Okay, so what are we saying with right? What we're saying over here. Okay, let me use a whiteboard for this. Right? Basically, the average number of students in the system, which I'm going to call L, right, equals the rate at which students come into the system, which I'm going to call lambda, right? Times the average amount of time the students hang up in the system, right? So the average number of students in the system for the MBA thing, right? We'll talk about that was 600 why was it 600 because we take in 300 students a year, and the students stick around for two years. Everybody good with this, right? So 300 students a year stick around for two years. So we have

Unknown Speaker  1:16:56  
600 students.

Unknown Speaker  1:17:00  
I can apply the same story to the fish. I can apply the same story to the fish, right? What average amount of fish in the system? 4000

Speaker 1  1:17:12  
we calculated it, right? The average amount of fish in the system, right here, 4000 tons. Right? So the average amount of six fish in the system was 4000 tons. Okay, and what's the throughput of this system? 3000 right? This is what Brendan told us, right? There's 3000 tons a month flowing through the system,

Unknown Speaker  1:17:38  
right? 3000 tons a month flowing through the system, times W, right? So now you can tell me, W, right. So what's W? The

Speaker 1  1:17:49  
W? Is 4000 divided by 3000 just four thirds of a month. Everybody know this? Okay, this is called Little's Law. It's a fancy name for 300 students to say the system, you know it's gonna figure out for two years. Equals 600 in the system. It's named after John Little, by the way. So John Little was one of the early professors of the Sloan School. He was the founder of several departments at Sloan and, you know, very famous guy. And he passed recently, actually, just like a year. Okay, so, okay, so this, this, this is four thirds of the top, not four thirds of a month. Okay, all right, yes.

Speaker 1  1:18:37  
So we look at systems where people don't die, so the truth the stuff coming out eventually, okay, so in those systems, this is, they're called conservative systems, right? Where there's no leakage, so students disappearing. Okay, so what I want to do is I want to quickly apply this, what we just did to JetBlue, right? Because it's the same story that can apply to JetBlue, right? If you think about JetBlue like we're talking about fish over here with JetBlue, it's plate, okay, so this was my very course view of JetBlue, right? If we looked at things more carefully, this was kind of like the demand, right? Now, what you could do is, instead of sketching this with paper and pencil, you know, I could do this with Excel. Okay, I'll share an Excel sheet that does this, right? That kind of says, look, there's a plane coming in at six that plane can get serviced immediately. There's a plane that comes in at 605 that can get serviced immediately. There's two planes at 630 right? These can get serviced immediately. But then there's these two planes at 635 and these guys have to wait. And then there's more planes that come in at seven, and so on and so forth. And so if you sort of think about this, it's like, sort of like a digital build up diagram. Everybody see this, right? And you can do this digital build up thing in Excel or something like that. It's not particularly hard, okay, all you're tracking is, here's the plane it came in, here's when it left, and so forth. Okay, now I can actually apply the same thing I did with the fish for JetBlue, right? So this is a build up diagram, okay, of what would actually happen, right, if I ran this system with the realistic arrivals, right during a day when every plane required. PS, right. So this is kind of the build up. This is the number of fish in the system, the number of planes in the system, right? And I can calculate all those things. I calculated for the fish, right? So the area under the curve, that's 98.3 plane hours. Okay, so it's not tons months of fish, it's plane hours, right? There's planes on the y axis, hours on sort of the the x axis. So the average length of this queue, right? The average number of planes in the system is the same thing, 98.3 divided by 24 hours. That's 4.1 planes, right? And the throughput, right? Because all these planes are, let's say, taking off. It's 58 planes over 24 hours, that's 2.41 flights now, right? So in this context, I ask about, hey, what's my delay? How would I calculate delay? What's the average delay in this picture? Right? So we're going to use that same thing. The weight is L divided by lambda. Our L is 4.1 our lambda is 2.41 right? 4.1 planes on average, 2.1 flights an hour, right? So that translates to 1.7 hours. So now, okay, now, good, right? So now we've sort of done this simple analysis that lets us see, yeah, because these flights kind of come in, like, you know, ebb and flow, I actually have a demand. It's a sizeable difference, 1.7 out this making sense. Okay, all right, I want to show you something really quick, so I can set you up with a puzzle, right? Then we leave. Okay? So I can play the same game to understand, well, what would happen if I increase demand by 36% right? So let's say I did not invest in deicing and I increased demand by 36% what do you think delay would go up by roughly 36% right? That's our intuition. Everybody good with this, but we don't need to guess right. Like, I can do the same, build up, right? And this is the build up, okay, if I do this, build up, oops, if I do this, yeah, if I do this, build up, here's what I guess. The area under the curve is 281.4 planes. The average queue length is now 11.7 planes. Okay, so our L is 11.7 the throughput has gone up, right? Like demand went up 36% 78 flights, right? So our lambda is now 3.25 flights per hour. And so what's my weight L divided by lambda 11.7 divided by 3.25 okay, what is that? 3.6 out? Okay, look at that. Look at that, right. So the simple back of the envelope. Thing is telling us two things, okay, two important things, right? One is that, hey, variability, positivity, like we appreciated that from the McDonald spin at the start of the class. Now we really appreciate we quantify. The second thing is, perhaps something we weren't expecting, which is, not only does the variability cause delays, right? When you have variability, a slight increase in demand can result in a disastrous increase in delays, right? Something pretty non linear. I increased demand by just 36% but my delay went up by over 100% All right, the puzzle I want to leave you with is the following. And it's not so much a puzzle, it's more kind of now a strategic question, okay, so it turns out that if you actually made the your heart investment, okay, these are the statistics you get. Okay, we calculated the 1.7 hours and the 3.6 hours. If you make that your heart investment, delays would go down to 1.5 hours with the capacity expansion. Okay, earlier, we didn't have a way of thinking about this. Right now we do. We're saying, look, we've quantified delays, but it's an expensive investment, and we said earlier, it's a 1% margin, right for this business. The puzzle I have for you is, do you want to make this investment? And how do you think about. We'll talk about that.

Transcribed by https://otter.ai
