Speaker 1  0:00  
Okay, okay, let me put up this code for anybody rolling in late.

Unknown Speaker  0:11  
Sorry,

Speaker 1  0:24  
so last, you know, last Monday, which feels like an eternity ago, I showed you guys this picture, and I said, Really, you know, this entire class is really about kind of going back and forth between these two top thought bubbles. Right on the one hand, as a CEO, you're sort of asking yourself, you know, What? What? What is your product? Right? So, how are you adding value? Why should somebody come to you as opposed to your competitor? Right? And you're not just thinking about the product as it is today. You're thinking about the product roadmap. You're thinking about where the product is today, and you're going to recognize that, hey, you know, that starts to attract competition. This is where you're going to be here from now. Maybe this is where you want to be five years from now and so forth, right? And you know, that lines up with kind of capabilities on the right. There's so many different capabilities, investment in capacity, technology, people and what have you right? And at some level, you know, Operations Management is sort of the science of coordinating these kind of two battles right now, last week again, we spent a bunch of time thinking about the role of capacity investment, right? That's basically what last week has been, has been about, right? And thinking through it, we thought through a number of sort of subtleties, right? So some of the subtleties we thought through were sort of how non linear. You know, the impact of utilization, actually, right? We thought through the impact of variability, right? We said, Hey, actually, really, what makes things interesting is variability, like absent variability, everything's kind of straightforward. And for intuition, as soon as you throw variability in there all these sort of weird things to happen. And that's that's actually an opportunity to do interesting things, right? And we ended last week actually, you know, talking about talking about data, right? And in particular, you know, what came out of that was, again, roughly speaking, an issue with variability, right? If you sort of think about where we landed up at the end of that discussion, we saw some surgeons and some some MPs, and some aren't, you know, taking a long time with a lot of spread. You know, others not. And so look, you know, it's not like one's bad and one's good. The PSU is very willing to become consistency, right in that, in that particular case, if you fix that consistency problem, yeah, you can potentially get a bigger issue, but you can get at much larger issues, right? We ended with sort of talking very briefly about intermounta healthcare, sort of an article I actually given you guys to read, sort of Optionally, you know, this, this, this, this healthcare system, you know, as an example of a system where, 30 years ago, they made a big investment in sort of figuring out, how do they build systems so that folks learn from each other in an effective way towards actually building consistency and subs right? And as a result, it's one of the most efficacious health care systems in the country. I don't know if I actually showed you guys this slide, like basically, if you compare per capita costs at a place like intermonton versus per capita costs at a place like mgh, it's about a fifth, right? So the per capita cost at intermonton about 1/5 but if you look at outcomes, most outcome measures, pretty much all outcome measures, for instance, you know, readmission into the hospital after being discharged from an ICU, or things like that, can actually better at inner money, right? And so this is kind of, in more recent years, especially now, kind of led to sort of a surge in activity around, well, how do we build, you know, you're not going to be an external consultant that enforce consistency, right? That's going to be kind of hard to do, and we kind of saw that with data, right? Like, because we know you're not going to recognize all the subtleties of this, of this business, right? So you run the risk of throwing out the baby with the bathwater. On the other hand, how do you build software and systems that actually inform and help this? And you know, we've sort of one of the big applications of everything happening with generative AI is exactly this sort of software. And give you an example of a company at the end of class Friday, this company called the Bridge, right? That sort of informs that kind of software for the healthcare industry, right? But you can kind of think about similar stories across industries, or think about that for sales, or think about that for safety and manufacturing, whatever it is. So last week, if I think about the lever, the lever was largely this lever of capacity. Okay, so that was the that was the lever last week. This week, okay, we're going to be talking about a slightly distinct level. We're going to be talking about the lever of supply chain design and inventory. Okay, so a lot of businesses actually sell stuff, and that stuff requires that they have widgets, right? It's not just purely a service. They also need, you know, some sort of inventory, right? And so that, in a sense, complicates things from last week, right? Last week, if somebody showed up, you just needed, you just needed the person available to bring them service, right? There was no notion of inventory. What if there is a notion of inventory as well? Okay, what do we what do we do next? Right? And, you know, inventory is important, right? Like, for instance, if you think about the retail sector in the US, and you exclude from the retail sector food and gas, right? So if I take out food and gas, I just look at the rest of retail, that's a little over $2 trillion dollars. So it's a big, it's a big, chunky business, right? That requires tons of inventory. So we're going to spend this week, and actually going a little bit into next week, right, thinking about this lever, you know, managing, you know, managing inventory, and then, you know, thinking more generally, managing entire supply chains. Okay, so that's, that's, that's, that's kind of what we're, what we're, what we're headed into, headed into next. Okay, any questions before we, before we launch the film, about any sort of one week into the class? Yeah, focus

Speaker 2  6:19  
on the curing theory. Yeah. How do you actually do the planning? Because we plan for the peak and all based on the reliability for a peak queue. I need to have this many tellers, but at some time, everything will be underused for the world, for the those who run the business. So what would be the best approach to manage this kind

Speaker 1  6:45  
of so now you have, like traditional things like scheduling and so on and so forth, right? So if there's some kind of predictable variability, you want to arrange supply to queue as closely to that predictable variable. And then on top of that, you can think about the queuing thing. Yeah, sure. Could

Speaker 1  7:07  
not download the Excel file for the thing to do tonight, this coming Friday. Good, great. Nice to see that you're ahead of the curve.

Unknown Speaker  7:22  
I yeah,

Unknown Speaker  7:24  
I think that's the crux of

Speaker 3  7:33  
all so, yeah. So the example can we consider worse fiber and rider map? Minor mapping has,

Speaker 1  7:46  
yeah. So, you know, at some level, I think what you're thinking about is like people coming in from both sides, right? Yeah, 100% in fact, there's some sophisticated theory around the added sort of conclusions are no different from what we talked about last week. It's the same kind of, you know, exponential kind of behavior, but right again, I don't expect you guys gonna be engineering all that, right, but important to you to understand

Speaker 4  8:14  
the picture. Yeah, yeah. I was just thinking back to my application, bank, markets, company. So one of the main challenges that we had was inter systems, messaging, have was inter systems messaging a message to system B using a pre process by Revu. So

Unknown Speaker  8:29  
once, once in a while

Unknown Speaker  8:31  
there'll be an issue where there'll be a search in intro, and

Unknown Speaker  8:35  
then, because we couldn't manage it.

Speaker 4  8:39  
So I'm just wondering whether the lessons begin to whether,

Speaker 1  8:46  
yeah. So, interestingly enough, the shorter is yeah, yes, right. In fact, you know the black area actually in data center these days, and data center technology is thinking about sort of centralized management systems for data centers, right? If you sort of think about it, the historical thing has been, hey, managing a large data center, decentralizing, just like to manage the internet and so, you know, one, one theme recent years has been actually, to data science. Intro, everything, right? So thinking about PCB, IP, think about things in that modality that's actually pretty complicated, and one of the elements of

Speaker 1  9:39  
actually solving that problem of certain issues regarding ways to kind of scale or not be able right into all sorts of other issues, and just using the importance of data scientists, this is like the time of an industry, in addition to something of this approach, yeah, you don't want the software developers. You want this to be

Speaker 5  10:10  
abstracted. And now looking at the budget ban, yeah, financial differences. You

Speaker 2  10:36  
have of,

Speaker 1  10:46  
yeah. So I think with stepping back, I think your point that, like, you know, if you sort of think broadly about finance, you think about consumer finance specifically, there's a lot of room for doing this kind of stuff. In fact, that's been, like a very important sort of investment area for very long, times recently, right? Again, actually, AI plays a big role, right? If you sort of think about how you can scale personalized service with so I think that's that's all in the interactions. Now, I think you're asking the question of, you know, are they sort of interesting applications of this stuff in, you know, the actual finance channels, right? And probably, yeah, it's a little bit technical, but yeah, the tournament is, yeah. So for instance, in one area that I'm actually very familiar with, which is hyper people, literally, price, people, price, you know, the cost of the delay, right? Like, of things. And you know that because of things like adverse selection and so on, and that, in turn, drives markets, like how much you're going to be ready to be close to exchange and things like that. So there are applications of this stuff. Because, again, okay, so, let's, let's, let's get on with things and talk about inventory. As I said, I want to start at, like, sort of a super high level, right? I want to start a super high level, so without kind of getting into the mess of all of this just intuitively, right? I want to sort of understand, you know, the sort of pros and cons of kind of carrying inventory. So for instance, if I say, Look, I'm going to carry this shirt, and the decision is to carry lots of units of that shirt, right? What are the pros and cons of me carrying a lot of this shirt, putting aside a good looking shirt, or not t shirt, whatever you're doing, right? Think about it. Or let's pick up his T shirt a little bit. What are the pros and cons? What do we what do we think? Okay, so one, one, important, plus, uh, right over here is sort of access, right? So lots of inventory needs, you know, access to the customer.

Unknown Speaker  13:11  
Manuel, you need a place.

Speaker 1  13:14  
So there's a negative. I'm saying negative is like, you know, storage. Okay, I'll leave more storage if I have more stuff next door. Okay, what does that mean by the cost of carrying that inventory?

Speaker 6  13:30  
Actually, you can the amount of money to produce that goes

Speaker 1  13:35  
pays you some some cash that you can have it on the bank. Yeah. And also you can split that inventory code, for example, in next to Ranch, in all the direct codes required to those Okay, so one version of the cost that you're kind of pointing out is, if I need to make a million of those shirts, and the shirts cost me $5 a pop to make, I need, I need $5 million I need to invest $5 million before I see it down, right? And so that's where we're talking about the financing costs of me going out there and borrowing $5 million to make a million copies of that, you know, that shirt, and you know, I'll pay interest on that. So there's, there's, there's, there's the lending costs associated. So there's some financing cost.

Speaker 5  14:22  
What extra inventory?

Speaker 1  14:30  
Yeah, yeah. So access to customer, you know, if I, if I kind of double click into this, you know, I'm going to say, sort of say, there's some notion of timeliness over here, right? Which is that you've got the stuff when you want it. There's no, like, mid range, right? I wanted a guy, right? It's not like you have to wait for two days. That's kind of what you're saying. I like it. Yes, It shields you from the uncertainty, for example, now with the pirates, where you got know? Okay, that's actually really a really nice point. At some level, if you kind of buy a lot of inventory, it can hedge you from future suppliers, right? So let me put another plus over there hedge against supply risk, right? So, something so we've been thinking about demand risks. You're saying, Look what if you know, a supplier goes down, in effect, because of, you know, tariffs, or maybe because of a fire, or whatever it is, doesn't really matter, having that inventory hedges you against suppliers

Speaker 3  15:44  
getting sold and getting outdated, especially it's in

Speaker 1  15:49  
fashion. Okay? So another cost over here is obsolescence. I don't know, whatever something, something, right? Yeah, they're the risk of like that. The stuff gets like, you know, like, I have, like, a TV, I buy a bunch of TVs and those TVs, or whatever. Or, actually, you know, one industry was a huge issue with selling conductors, right, a lot of chips, of a particular architecture, and that supply chain actually takes a long, long time, right? So it's not just, you know, it's not just the suppliers that you're talking about. It's just that, hey, setting this up, getting it on the water, all of these sorts of things, there's all this delay, right? You've got to take a big bet upfront, right, so that you don't miss the market, and you know that, in turn, leads the downside of that is this sort of obsolescence. Maybe a new architecture comes along, and that was stupid.

Speaker 1  16:59  
Yeah, yeah. So I like that, so let's, let's actually put that over here, right? So economies, there's lots of, there's lots of sort of, there's lots of sort of fixed costs, right? That I can advertise if I buy a lot, right? So, for instance, let's say there's like, you know, let's say you kind of pay for, you know, two containers, right? You may as well fill up those two containers, because you pay the same thing one way or the other. So there's a whole bunch of fixed costs, and you can kind of amortize those fixed costs then, thereby, again, economies of scale, right? If you potentially buy a lot. So that's, that's, that's, that's, that's a good Gary. Financing

Unknown Speaker  17:43  
costs of the stress on the cash flow,

Speaker 7  17:45  
and with higher stress on the cash flow, the resources on having more people,

Speaker 1  17:52  
yeah. So you're saying, you know, there's financing costs, but then there's kind of, at some level, what you're saying is there's a broader, kind of shadow cost, like an opportunity cost of this capital, right? So you're saying more generally, you know, the opportunity cost of capital, right? And you could use that opportunity cost of capital to do all kinds of different things. So that's, that's a that's a great point. Any other significant things that we might have missed, even

Speaker 7  18:21  
you have something that is missing, you cannot keep a product. But then they said they will actually have more inventory than just have stock, and they will always have a product.

Speaker 1  18:32  
Yeah, sure, sure. So basically, your point is that this risk that we're talking about access to the customer, this is a pretty complicated risk. We're talking about this very simple thing with a T shirt, right? I don't have the t shirt. I don't have the t shirt. But when you think about supply chains producing like one product, like a car, could depend on lots of different stuff. So for instance, when we went through the pandemic, the auto industry was hit really badly. But it was hit really badly, predominantly due to supply shops with electronics, which are actually not a very big part of, like, you know, the bill of coffee, if I look at the, you know, like the bill of lading for, like, a car, right? The cost of the various things going in, the electronics are not generally a big part of it. But it was that that ended up kind of choking me, right, that supply chain. Okay, any other things last, one or two things, certain sort of

Speaker 6  19:23  
liability risk or storage risk, where all those T shirts burn down the manufacturer's factory. That's his problem. If you help them, it's not your problem.

Speaker 1  19:33  
Sort of, yeah, no. So that's, that's good. So there's kind of intangible risk in carrying a lot of stuff, right? So you carry a lot of stuff, and there's a fire, but all I said this, right? There's also things like weird things, actually, maybe not so weird, like shrinkage, right? So, which is, generically, if you carry a lot of stuff, you have an increased risk of theft and things like that, right? So there's all these weird things that you that like that are kind of almost proportional, right? Costs that are almost proportional to the inventory you carry. The more you carry is, the more the cost. The cost may be intangible, because it's a fire, whatever. Okay, okay, so what am I sort of seeing over here? Do you have something to add, Joe? I think I saw a hand going up and down. Oh,

Speaker 7  20:16  
yeah. I guess scarcity like conversely, I think scarcity and urgency creates significant, or maybe not significant, but consumer behaviors that drive, like, do

Unknown Speaker  20:27  
the FOMO fear of missing out? Oh, I like this. Like, if

Speaker 1  20:30  
something is exclusive or limited in quantity, yeah, yeah, I like that point. It's almost like a contrarian point right to the access point. I like that point a lot, saying, like, you know, if we think about this, and then also think in a contrarian way, where deliberate scarcity is actually a good thing, there's actually a lot of goods that are actually not a lot of goods, but there's a whole segment of goods that are sort of like this. In fact, there's a term for it named after an economist named Oswald. They're called dubalin goods. Yeah, right, yeah. These are goods where basically just by you kind of, Why do you tell us about

Speaker 8  21:12  
so it's basically the high end products. And then they are those very cheap products. So I'm, like, a little bit confused between the two. I think the very high products say the UK create a kind of scarcity for them, so that

Speaker 1  21:27  
people value more. Very similar. I think you're going in a good direction. So I think that the whole point with a blender is the value in the product is not in any utility of the product, right? It's rather than simply showing people that you have the fun, right? So the ultimate example to my mind with the Dublin good of a Dublin good is actually when the iPhone first came out, there was an app store. There was a it was an app which basically cost $1,000 and all the app did was it showed a screen with the Ruby on rich. What was it called? I'm rich. I'm rich. Was it iron rich? It's called iron rich? No. Now you think that is the silliest thing in the world, right? Yet, the people that made iron rich, I think there were 1000s of people that decided to declare to the world that they were rich, and they paid $1,000 on the screen with the roofing. So that's the ultimate example of a beveling good, right? And the rules of beveling goods are a little bit different from what we're talking about up here, right? With beveling goods, it's not so much about inventory and finding the next utility comes almost exclusively from the exclusivity of the product. And so if you're dealing with the Madeleine good, right? You gotta be you gotta be careful. A lot of what we thought about, in fact, a lot of what you thought about, your key context, doesn't really hold up, right? So I'm gonna put put those aside, but I will actually come back to this kind of concept, because I like this notion of, like, Can scarcity actually be strategic? I like that. So I'll come back to

Speaker 1  23:09  
but that might actually have utility. This is like saying Yo to your buddy. I'm thinking about what's that worth raising? That's a different point, right? Like, I think that we're questioning, is there, what is the value? It's like, very clearly, zero. So, yeah, anyways, okay, so I get what we're seeing here is a very clear trade off, right? So on the one hand, it says there's no like, obvious answer, like, oh, just get a ton of inventory, or get very little inventory. That cannot be the right answer, right? There's no like, like, like, rule of thumb. Just get a lot of it. It's very clear that such a rule of thumb can't exist because there's this nice trade off, right? If you have too much of this stuff, the more you have, the more it costs you, right? For a variety of reasons. Let me highlight it. You know, you have to borrow, you know, the stuff might go obsolete, whatever. On the flip side, I mean, too little also has a choice, right? So you don't have the product. And now, you know, the person that's buying from you goes to your competitor, whatever it is, and then doesn't come back, right? Or you just lose the sale, right, which is ultimately the business you're in, right? You're in the business of selling stuff. So if you don't have the stuff to sell, that's, that's clearly problematic. So it's a bit of a trade off over here. And at some level, we've got to kind of understand this trade off. In order to understand this trade off, right? I want to kind of take a step back and maybe think about, like, really a process for you, almost, of carrying a mentor, okay, so let's say you looked at a giant retailer like Walmart, right? What's a good model to have at the back of our mind, or like a chip maker, like Nvidia, whatever it is, right? What's a good model to have at the back of our minds for a Walmart, you know, or an Nvidia, or whatever, okay, so I have actually very simple model, right? So check this out. It's really, really simple. Okay, don't laugh, right? So this is my model of wobbling, okay, just like these two boxes, right? And what, what is happening in this model, okay, so what's happening in this model is, right? You know, stuff you buy comes in, right? It hangs out here for a bit, right? And then you sell it, right? And when you sell it, the stuff that's flowing through throws off margin dollars. Everybody see what I'm saying. So there's like truth through this system. And the system could be Walmart, it could be Nvidia to be whoever it is, right. So what I'm saying is, goods goes through the system, right, inventory, really shows up as just goods kind of held up inside the system right, but that's really what it shows up at.

Speaker 1  26:23  
It flows through the box. When it exits the box, it throws out margin dollars, if you want, right? But it doesn't just flow through, right? You might have inventory sitting inside the box for a while, and as we just discussed, we don't like having a lot of inventory hanging out with the box. We don't like a big few of inventory. Is this sort of rough picture making sense? Okay? With this in mind, right? I want to sort of ask the following question, okay, does it even matter to understand this stuff, right? So we're going to spend like, a week going into this, right? And I used to kind of think about it. Still thinks like some of the stuff over here in the space is useless, right? Like you can look at this, it's like all these details, but at high level, is this area important? Okay, I want to ask that question before we kind of dive in, right? I want to convince ourselves that maybe this is actually important, right? And so with that in mind, I'd like to do a tiny breakup, okay? With you guys. So I'm going to show you two slides again. You have this in the in the pre class slides, okay, one is a snapshot of Walmart's financials over the preceding four years, okay, leading up to, you know, all the way through fiscal 25 right? And then the other is targets financials, right? Same story, leading all the way through fiscal 25 okay, so I'd like you guys to kind of hang out with each other and spend three minutes on this. Okay, so here's, here's the question, right? So we said, Listen, we don't like carrying a lot of inventory, right? Like, the sort of this cost of inventory are, like, kind of you, maybe not good, right? And so the pressure is somewhat vague, and so you can make of it what you will, right? But look at these financials. And looking at the financials, I want you to tell me who you think is doing a better job of managing inventory. Okay, is it Walmart, or is it target? You got financials for Walmart here to the financials for target. Okay, so spend three minutes with with your Friends and and then We'll come back On. So

Unknown Speaker  30:37  
you Want To Be

Speaker 1  31:23  
Your box let's get like someone that's not spoken today, I think cause you not spoken, Go ahead.

Speaker 9  32:05  
Yeah, so the reason why

Speaker 1  32:23  
push. So I think you're looking at this sort of intuitively, and you're sort of saying, look, if I looked at revenue versus inventory, I see kind

Unknown Speaker  32:37  
of a favorable thing that bothers

Speaker 1  32:41  
me a little bit right direction that kind of speaks for like, for like marginalized inventory management. We're not quite answering the question, right, but I see it right there. I would look at the cost of revenue, a similar story, but instead of the cost of revenue. Okay, so I think this is actually pretty intuitive, right? These guys are cost of revenue to the cost of the inventory. So why does this make sense? Okay, so I think, yeah, it is intuitive, right? But let's just sort of come back to our process picture over here, right? Let's just come back to this process picture. So really, what we're saying is we kind of care about throughput through the system, right? And so what's going through the system, right? There's like a TV going through the system. There's many carrots going through the system, you know, maybe toothpaste. How do I compare? You know, TV and carrots and toothpaste, these are all like different things, right? So what's a good common denominator to measure throughput? Dollars, right? Dollars? I like that, but what sort of dollars? Well, let's think about this. So whenever a unit flow through the system, it throws off margin, okay, but it's not like there's margin flowing through the system, right? So what sort of dollars do we want to be thinking about cost, right? It's cost, the cost of the cost of goods sold, right? So the way, the way I might think about a TV and a carrot and whatever right is basically, I asked, okay, the TV is $1,000 a carrot, $1 that's $1,001 flowing through this, right? So if I, if I started looking at this, right, I've got lambda over here. Okay, and lambda is measured as cost of good soap cost, right? Okay, so I got lambda, and that's cost of good. So that's cost, okay, now I can also kind of look at how much inventory you're carrying in the system, right? That's our out every everybody, everybody with me on this, right? So this is kind of the average inventory, also measured in cost dollars. This is also measured in cost dollars, right? So I've got the average inventory over here measured in cost dollars. We're going to call that L I've got this lambda over here, which is kind of the throughput, the cause going through the system, right? And so what now we know is, what, when you see an L and a lambda, what's the third thing you should be thinking about? Wait time, W, right? And so we know that L is lambda times W, right? So w is L over lambda. But what is this wait time correspond to me. What does wait time actually mean? Good, yeah, it's like on average. How long is this inventory in the system? Right? Basically, this calculation if I divided cobs by rather if I divided average inventory by cogs, which is the reciprocal of the ratio that you guys were talking about. What is that exactly? That is precisely the average amount of time a unit of inventory is in your system. $1 of inventory is in your system. Is this very exact, right? So now we could sort of say, okay, great. So what that means is that, right? I can go back to these guys, and I can sort of ask myself, right, you know, how long I care about, how long inventory hangs out in the system? I can get that simply by looking at inventory value divided by cost, right? And so we can do these two things, right? So in the case of Walmart, the inventory value is $56 billion okay? And the cogs are $514 billion okay, this is, this is the L, this is the landing right, measured in, again, cost dollars we talked outside with, Target, right? The average. And by the way, where am I getting this from, right? Like I'm getting this from here. This is the inventory, right? You know, curious, sort of the cost, right? And same story for target, right? Here's the inventory, here's the cost. Okay, so the story we target, right? What's the inventory targets a smaller retailer, you know, average inventory of about $12 billion and the cost $76 billion right? So again, that's, that's lambda, right? So now we know what the wait time is, right? How long $1 of inventory hangs out at Walmart. And so how long does $1 of inventory hang out at Walmart? Point one, one years, right? Because these are units of years. This is cost per year, right? And point one, one years in weeks. That's about five and three quarter weeks. Okay, I can do the same thing with target. It's point 167, years. And that's about 8.68 weeks. Okay, so roughly speaking, what we're saying is, if I sort of think about $1 right, and I ask myself, how long does that dollar convert from it being an inventory dollar to be getting the dollar back along with my margin, right? We're saying that in the case of target, it's about 50% longer than Obama, right? Everybody see what we're saying. It's about 50% longer. And really, we sort of think about all the costs that we were talking about earlier associated with inventory. Almost cost scale with time, right? Brits can think about like the cost of a revolving line of credit, right? That's a giant business title, right? So all of these guys with Walmart target, so on and so forth have big credit facilities with typically syndicates and banks, right? Like the city is typically a big player here. JP, Morgan's a big player. BNP, Paribas is a big player, right? So voila, or target, or whoever it is, has like this revolving line of credit, which is 10s of billions of dollars, right? And they're paying pictures on those 10s of millions of dollars, right? Like for every time that that dollar is out. And so what we're seeing is, just from that perspective, target takes 50% loan. Okay, so now, okay, we can go even further, right? And we can ask ourselves, so what? Okay, great. It takes them 50% longer, so what? Right? Because there's so many other moving parts. Well, it turns out right. So first, let's just look at this, right? Here's a picture. You may look at this, and you may say, Well, this is kind of anecdote, because it's Walmart versus target, right? And you can see that one has done much better than the other. And you can sort of ask yourself, Does this anecdotal or is there something systematic going on over here? And the story is that, though, there actually is something systematic going on over here. So this win time that we just talked about, okay, in sort of macro finance terms, is often referred to as a cash conversion cycle. Okay, so what we just talked about, the W that we just calculated, was often referred to as a cash conversion cycle, right? For the obvious reasons. You start with cash. It's something inventory, and when you kind of sell it, you get those dollars back, plus or marginal, right? Well, what people have found is that basically these cash conversion cycles are associated with higher returns on the underlying stock, okay. And so there's, there's a bunch of studies on this, right? I've highlighted two of them, right? This one's actually a really well known study, okay? And so what this study is basically saying is that, if you sort of think about two companies that are more or less competitors, but once converting cash, you know, you know faster, right? So if in the highest decile versus the lowest decile, typically you can see returns that are excess returns of about 5% okay, so this is a lot, basically. So that, what I want you to take away from this is the following, right? That this little issue that we're talking about, right? This, like, operational issue that's sitting over here in one corner that's saying, Oh, how long does it take you to throw this inventory around? This is like a first order mover for the performance of the business. Okay? It's not just some, like, operational KPI we're interested in. This is something that literally moves stock prices. It's a very, very important degree. And this is kind of how I look at this, right? This is how I kind of think about this. Okay, now this is, this is why we ought to be perhaps, you know, paying attention to this sort of stuff. Patrick, go ahead.

Speaker 1  41:25  
Yes. Think about Amazon, right? So you think about Amazon. Amazon typically says they have negative cash conversion cycles. Okay? Why? Because they claim that people pay them to hold inventory, right, which they do. So if you look at their merchant business, people pay them in the merchant business, right to hold inventory. This is a little bit of a weird way of kind of looking at that's more like marketing to the street, right? Because this is a separate business that's Amazon is a platform. Now you can kind of ask yourself, What, Okay, what about the non platform business, right? And what is that before? And so forth. So for people who often use these numbers to market their ambulance, but just be careful in kind of right? So in particular, if you look at Amazon as a whole, and you account this sort of platform business, It's kind of weird. You

Unknown Speaker  42:23  
we have a performance.

Speaker 1  42:46  
Show. Attorney, right? And so they don't carry injury. They made an entire services, right? So like that, right? So the troops are there. It's like entire services, right? Their their inventory, cash conversion, cycles, beautiful, right? You might ask yourself on the flip side, the money. So interestingly enough, right? Like there's a cost to pay for them, which is sometimes you may not pay the shirt, right? So it's an interesting trade off. Other Other questions. So is

Speaker 7  43:21  
this true only for this type of low margin, high turnover businesses, or

Speaker 1  43:26  
this is true in general. So this, this the thing about the cost finger, the CCC, that's true in general. That's true in general, right? Because you can have these lags for a number of reasons. You can also have the lag because you're terrible at collection, right? That can also happen. It happens. There's some businesses that suck in, right, but they have very poor payment terms, or something like that, right? So this is, like, a fundamental thing, right? In fact, it's, in fact, it's so fundamental that recently, for people that do, like global macro trading was actually a very important indicator of the health of like a country, right? So if I look at the health of a country, I'll offer them a cash conversion cycles inside the country, right, and Logan Cash Conversion cycles. There are a

Speaker 10  44:13  
few components to follow just in time when fluctuating the like exactly what I think Zara is doing something similar. So tomorrow

Unknown Speaker  44:26  
we'll talk we'll talk about Zara. Okay, yeah.

Speaker 10  44:28  
So I guess they've run those, let's say, studies, and they have kind of understood that

Speaker 1  44:35  
this is so even players like Zara, Toyota do have to carry tons of inventory. It's not like they're carrying inventory again, like words like, words like just in time are like, English, right? So it's like, left to your imagination, right? Like, just like, yeah, you snap your fingers and our camera materializes. Doesn't work, like tractor, right? And so, you know, even if you use monitors, like just in time, it's not like they're not carrying inventory, often they're carrying significant amounts, right? Again, the question is, what does optimal mean? And we're going to get, have to get into that. So actually, that's a, that's a good, you know, let's, let's pause the discussion on this here, because I like, I like what he just said. I think this is clear in everybody's minds, all right? Like, there's, there's some notion of an optimal, right? There has to be some notion of an optimal it's not too much. It's not too little, right? How should we think about this? And of course, we don't care about the exact number, but we want to understand what the moving parts, right? So let's, let's actually get into that, right? That's going to be a nice media discussion. Now, we keep carrying inventory for a whole bunch of different reasons, right? So today I want to talk about carrying inventory for a very simple reason, right, which is like the story of the shirts. Okay, so we'll look at more complicated things, like in a little bit, right? But let's start really simple, right? So the really simple sort of story is, you know, I have to, I want to sell a product like that lovely t shirt, right? Except that, for me to sell this t shirt, right? I get the t shirt made by a manufacturer that requires long lead test. Okay? So in order for me to sell the t shirt in, you know, in the summer, I need to kind of get into quick orders, like last November or something like that, right? So I'm sitting there last November, I'm asking myself, you know, how many of these wonderful polo T shirts Should I, should I actually order? Right? And there's kind of a trade off here, which is, if I order too much, you know, the urine is going to kind of come and go. I don't know if that color is going to be hot next summer, blah, blah, blah. This may actually not be a good thing, right? Plus, I'm actually just sitting on all these pieces, right, with the associated cost and so forth. If I order too little, then I get into the sort of story with Patrick, right? Which is that, you know, maybe Patrick really wants the t shirt, but, you know, Patrick's like, an extra small and we don't, we don't extra small, the safe thing to say. So, right, like, and so we don't, we don't, we don't have it in the right size. Okay, I took some really falling flat. I barely saw a smile from Patrick, more like a smirk. So how should we think about this? Okay, so just to kind of make the picture real, this is actually, this is actually, I show you this picture because so I know the founder of this company, Aldo, they make shoes, and I literally got into an argument with this guy. It's Aldo ventil about exactly this product about seven or eight years ago. Okay, so it's a funny story. The story is not important. I'll tell you another time, but, but like, let's imagine this. It brings the point that I want to bring across clear, okay, so let's say you're selling these boots, okay? And they're called over the knee boots because they presumably go over the knee. And great, you know you're sitting there. Okay, you're sitting there. And it's 2017 Okay, so it's late 2017 Okay, let's imagine it's somewhere, it's somewhere late 2017 right? And you're asking yourself, right? How many of these shoes do I order for 2018 Okay, so my question to you is, like, how you actually think about this, right? And what I'm showing you over here is the popularity of that search term on Google. Okay, so you see the popularity of that search term, right? So it sort of seems to be kind of going up, by the way, questions have been here a sense of why it peaks and then goes down. Yeah. Sandra, okay, good, good, okay. Like it goes up during the winter, right? So there's a spike in the winter, and then, like, you know, presumably people aren't wearing this even to the beach. And so that's, that's that? Okay? So how would you think about placing an order for 2018,

Speaker 1  49:02  
yeah, so here's the picture, right? Like, what are like? How would you think about placing an order for 28 Yeah. Okay, so Gary's saying, Look, I have, I have some uncertainty over here, but it looks like I have a trend going up, right? And so I want to order a little bit more. Yes. Do you have a counterpoint? Yeah, it might be

Unknown Speaker  49:31  
like celebration.

Speaker 1  49:34  
Maybe this thing is gone, right? It's like any fashion trend. It goes up and goes down. How do we know that this is the peak, right? Lots of things you can do to kind of get to the bottom of that sort of stuff, but you sort of see the trade off over here, right? So I'm sitting there, I don't know if I should order more, because it's gonna be even more popular. I don't know if you tell me I should already the same. I should order less, kind of unclear, right? And in this particular case, you know, actually that lived its life. I won my back with Mr. President, and but he's still richer than I am, and so here we are. But in any event, okay, this case, it didn't work out, right? And of course, this exists all the time, right? Like, since you're done with the winner, this is the summer, okay? This is something that sort of is going up, okay, so this was as of, I guess, this past summer. Okay, so you look at the fisherman sandal, or whatever it is. Apparently, I'm sorry. What do I know? Man, I'm just telling you what Google says, okay, but fisherman sandals, okay? Apparently they're sort of like the and I also found like, like the headline and some artists, okay, but in any event, right? This is going the opposite direction where Gary would have been right, right? Here's another one. This is more my scheme, the instant pop, right? It's like, totally dead at this point. I'm sorry. And also, by the way, apparently people died in the winters. Probably make like stews and raisins and whatever it is, right? But, you know, that's, that's fine. So the high level point is, right? There's a lot of these decisions where you need to place it, you know, I'm sitting here, I need to actually make a decision, right? And there's a lot of uncertainty in terms of what might actually happen, right? And that uncertainty can be for so many different reasons, right? Like, for instance, maybe this thing ceases to be popular, right? I don't know if this is going to be a hot thing or not a hot thing. Or I don't know if there is going to be, you know, some event that happens that makes this product really popular or really unpopular, or whatever. Okay, and so we're going in there, and demand is sort of really uncertain, right? And this drives, kind of the crux of our decision making. If we knew demand a priori, this would be easy. I'd buy exactly the number of instant pots I know I'm going to sell. I'd buy exactly the number of, you know, Apollo T shirts I know I'm going to sell. But the problem is I don't know that when I place the order, everybody with me in terms of the trade off, right? I don't have a crystal ball for demand, unfortunately, and so that makes life hard. Okay, so as I said, what I want to focus on today is kind of a basic trade off that gets to the heart of this kind of over the knee boot nonsense. Okay, so like, where should I be with my order? Right? Because I know I can order a lot, in which case I'll cover all my demand, but then I'm running a bigger risk of, like, having a bunch of stuff left over, or, you know, if I don't order enough, you know, maybe, maybe, you know, I'm missing sales, right? So to make this sort of crisp in our heads, as usual. I want to talk about, like a clinical example, right? That takes away, kind of, like the business context. I'm not arguing with you know, Alex here about whether the fisherman sandals are popular or not popular, whatever it is, right? Put all this, all this aside. All right, so don't talk about Christmas trees, again, completely made up because meant to be clinical, right? So here's a question, right? So we're preparing for the Christmas sales season, right? And we're, you know, we're going to sell trees. And basically the idea is that the selling season goes from, you know, let's say December 20, December one, to, like, Christmas Eve. Okay, so that's, that's our, that's our selling season. And let's say, you know, I've got to kind of place an order with, like, some tree farm in Vermont. Well in advance, they give me my allocation of trees. I take my trees, I put them in my shop, and I sell them between December one and December 20. Okay, and so let's say that we have a lot of data going into this, okay? And it's Christmas tree. So we, you know, Christmas is like, kind of evergreen, right at some level. So we're, we don't necessarily have to worry so much about, oh, you know, it's the Instant Pot and it's dying, or it's like the Christmas sample at the top, or whatever, okay, but there might be some variable. And so our marketing department, right? They've gone and they've done a bunch of analysis, or whoever. Department, right, they've gone and done a bunch of analysis, and they found that, you know, average demand for Christmas trees is about 30,000 Okay, so in a typical, in a typical season, I sell 30,000 shoes, okay? And so my question to you, right is, how many trees do you want to order? So pull out your phone and tell me how many trees you want to order. There's a little thing over there, just kind of curious. I hope this thing works. You. You guys got the you guys got it anyway. Still need to grab the code on click on it and take the screen you got the code. Alright? I think I should be able to click on this. Come on.

Speaker 1  55:11  
Interesting. Okay, this is sort of where what you guys seem to be saying. Okay, so it looks like it's between 35,000 trees and 30,000 that's that's what you guys seem to be saying. Okay, so somebody that said 30,000 trees, and there's at least 15 of you, tell me why I said 30,000 Yeah, go ahead. Yeah. That's the average. That's what you know. Stick with makes sense. Pretty, pretty reasonable. Somebody had said, Oh, wow, 30,000 is actually the modal one. Okay, fine. Does anybody have a charger for this time

Speaker 1  56:06  
for a new what's going on, crazy. I need a I'll bring next. You have this? Do you have a brick? Does anybody have a brick? Yes, yeah. Thank you guys, sorry for the drum.

Speaker 1  56:44  
Yeah, it's charging. Okay, okay, so 30,000 trees seems to be the normal answer. Okay, somebody said 35,000

Speaker 5  56:56  
trees, thanks, potentially that the value of losing a customer demand is higher would outweigh the cost of the 5000

Unknown Speaker  57:06  
fine. What sense like

Speaker 5  57:08  
meaning that you would want to over predict the demand, because in the event that you know, it does land a little bit higher, right, you would be losing and turning away customers and so potentially, oh, okay, you know, evaluating that value, to answer my own question, you would need the value of a lost customer,

Speaker 1  57:25  
good. So you're saying, Look, you're missing some information, right? Like you, how do you know which side is more important? Correct, losing a customer or having an extra tree, correct? That's the content of the advice. How would we know that? How would we know which side is more important? Margins? I didn't give you any margin structure information. Okay, so maybe we need margin structure information. Maybe that's, that's a nice, nice to have. Okay, good. So let's, let's think. We'll think about that in a second. Somebody that said, I don't know 45,000 trees. What were you thinking? That

Speaker 1  58:19  
constitution. If that were true, that answer makes sense. But let me ask this, right? So on James the twin, this is, like, super irritable. I put it in, like, the low whatever mode, and I don't know how to take it out of that mode. Maybe it's not right here, right? What a pain in the ass. I'll just keep tapping it. I guess that's, that's where most efficient again. Um, okay, so you know, James said, like, order more trees, right? Because maybe, maybe, you know, the cost of losing a customer is more than the cost of having an extra tree, correct? So how do we divide 35,000 and why not? I don't know, 45,000 right? You got you guys see what I'm saying. So let's say indeed, James is right, right for a quick second. Okay, and the cost of losing a customer is low. Is higher than the cost of having an extra tree. Why keep it at 35 Why not higher? Why not 40 Why not 45 I guess the question is like, what would that at the end of the day need as a time though 100 so you also care about variability, right? Because if the prediction was 30,000 and it's like very tight, it's like 30,000 plus or minus 100 trees, it's kind of crazy to get 35,000 trees. It's just never going to happen. Great, on the other hand, if 30,000 plus or minus 30,000 then maybe it's high. So it looks like there's two pieces of like desert data here, right? Like one is basically you guys want margin structure, and the other thing is, you know that you guys want, you know, how confident are we at this forecast? Right? Okay, so let me, let me give you that information. So here's an update to the problem, right? And so what I'm saying over here is it's the same as before, except that I'm giving you margin structures. Okay? So basically, the idea is that it costs me $15 to buy a tree, and then, because this is America. We sell the tree for $105 it's a nice, chunky margin. And then, yeah, you can maybe sell the tree for sod or whatever. I don't know something, okay, you got, you have five bucks on, on on trees that you're salvaging. Okay? So basically, right? If I, if I sell the tree, I make $90 Yep, but if I have one tree too many, it costs me 15, minus five, $10 that makes sense. Okay, so that's kind of the margin structure over here. And then things are uncertain, but they're not crazy, so, right? So the demand is 30,000 that's the average demand. But then there's variability there, over here, for whatever reason, right? Variability is plus minus 10,000 trees. Okay, so sim setup makes sense, right? So I've given you these two pieces. Margin structure, $90 is the money you make if you sell a tree. $10 what you lose if you have one tree too many, right? And then finally, you know, the uncertainty is 30,000 plus or minus 10,000 Okay, so same story as before. I'm kind of curious about what you

Speaker 1  1:01:39  
guessed. When I set this up yesterday, I was kind of worried if it wouldn't work, but I'm glad it's it seems to be working. I don't want to jinx it. Maybe I shouldn't be

Unknown Speaker  1:01:55  
jinxing. Yeah, you guys got it, yeah, let's

Speaker 10  1:02:03  
see. Okay, cool,

Speaker 1  1:02:09  
cool, right? So, so now, basically, there's still some people convinced that I'm like, doing something bad here. So there's one person that ordered 25 two people, right? But we got a nice and interesting straddle between 3545 and 55,000 trees. Okay, by my judgment, all these things could be correct, right? Like, hey, like the thinking over here, presumably, is, I make more money than I lose, right? I make $90 so in particular, let's say, you know, Sheba here, comes to me, she wants a tree, and I don't have it. Effectively, I've lost many dollars, right? That's kind of the opportunity cost of not having the tree. Alternatively, if she didn't come to me, and I still have the trees at the end of the season, I've lost $10 so would I rather lose $90 would I rather lose $10 right? That's kind of the thought process over here, and it seems like, you know, we're saying, Yeah, okay, given that you should probably order more than 30,000 trees for a James's kind of thing. Now, the question is, okay, how much more you guys qualitatively use your judgment? That's 3545 55 kilos. Okay, all right. So what I'd like to do is, I think we have a sense of what's going on here, right? What I'd like to do is kind of quantify this, and it's important that we quantify this if we're going to think about complicated problems. Okay, so I want to think, I think we're getting the intuition. I think we have the intuition now, but now I want to make that intuition sharp, okay? And why? Because, you know, we want to talk about complicated eggs, like Zara, whatever it is, right? How do I really play intelligent games with this sort of stuff? Okay, so that's what I want to do next. So, so we'll stick with this Christmas tree problem, right for the rest of the session. And here's kind of what we're seeing with the Christmas tree session, right? Really, we're saying, Look, you start out December one. You're an optimistic entrepreneur. You expect to make $90 on all these trees, right? But when December 25 shows up, when Christmas Day shows up, you've either got a bunch of trees that you've not sold and you've lost $10 on each of these trees, or you sold out on the 22nd in which case you're also set right. Because there's all these people that come in really late. I'm in that group, typically, right to buy trees. It just depends on, like, how fast, how harassed I am, right? If I'm really harassed, it might, it might go something much better, but many of them, right. So, you know, you sold out on the 22nd of December. And so at some level, what we're saying here is either which way you're screwed, right? So either you have too many trees, or you have, you know, you sold out, you had too few trees. And sometimes what we'd like to do is kind of balance the pain away, right? That's, that's, that's really kind of what we're saying, right? Ideally, we want to minimize the amount of pain away. Okay, so I want to kind of treat this problem as an optimization problem, okay? Because that's going to help me just sort of think about stuff in a rational way. In fact, I'm going to think about lots of problems over the rest of this class, not just today session, but many other sessions as these optimization problems, right? Like because it just helps us sort of say, what's our objective? What do we control? What are our constraints? Pretty straightforward, right? And so this is a pretty straightforward kind of optimization problem, right? If I sort of think about it, what's my decision variable in this optimization problem? How many trees do we order? Right? Very simple. How many trees should we order? So I'm going to call that Q, okay, so let's call that Q. So this is order quantity, right? And this is my decision variable, all right. Now there's a whole bunch of parameters that are relevant to this optimization problem, right? So the first set of parameters is around margin structure, okay? So we, I need three numbers there, right? So first is, what's the unit cost? You know, C, in this case, it's $15 right? That's unit cost. I'm using the letter C per unit cost, right? What's my unit revenue? So what do I get if I actually sell one of these trees? Let's call that r. In this case, r is $105 so gonna call that unit gravity, and then I have some unit salvage cost, right, which is, if I have too many trees, I have to salvage it. I'll get some amount of money for a tree. I'll call that B, okay, so that's $5 okay, so that's unit salvage, and of course, right? Like for these parameters, I'm going to assume that r is bigger than c is bigger than b, right? Why am I assuming that r is bigger than c is bigger than B? Yeah, yeah. It would be kind of a silly business, right? Like, if b is bigger than c, then just buy infinitely many trees. Buy as many trees as you can get your hands on, right? Because you lose no money one way or the other, right? Which makes sense, the only setup that makes sense, right? So these are my parameters, and there's one more object right that drives off my decision making. Right? What's that object? What's what's missing now, from the setup of you go ahead, demand. Now what? How should I be thinking about demand? What is demand in this, in this setup? Right? As an optimism when we're optimizing over here, what kind of object does demand at the time of optimization? What sort of an object does demand? What's got a new hand? It's random, right? It's random. If I knew what it was, this is not much of an optimization problem, right? Order, exactly the amount of demand. That's it, right. But at the time of optimization, I don't know what demand is going to be right, because the season hasn't shown up. I don't know, you know whether the what is it over the whatever hoops are going to be popular. I don't know whether the fisherman scandals or whatever like, I don't know these. So there's uncertainty at the time of decision making. And so D, you know, this ought to be a random variable, right? So this is demand it's a random variable. And in the case of our problem over here, you know, we're going to assume it's a normal random variable with mean 30,000 and standard deviation, 10,000 Okay, that's, that's, that's kind of a problem set up. What's my objective? Yeah, Derek, I want to maximize profit. And what kind of an object is profit over here is profit deterministic? What do you guys think? You see what he's saying, right? So we want to maximize profit. Makes perfect sense. But my question to you is, is profit deterministic, as I'm sitting there and optimizing? Yeah, so it's also random, right? So it's hard to optimize like a random quantity, but we can optimize certain things about the random quantity, right? So over here, I'm going to just simply maximize expected profit, but you can sort of see that like, you know, if you had risk controls and things like that, you may also worry about the standard deviation and things like that, which are not okay. So, you know, to the point that we just said, that Rashad has made, I want to kind of maximize, you know, expected, maximize, expected profit. Okay, so I want to maximize, I'm sorry, say again. Can you expand again? Sure. Quick. Second.

Speaker 1  1:10:03  
Right? Very high level. Yeah, so, one thing at a time, so, right? So first, like the expected profit business, right? Michael, on your question, so if I'm sitting here, right, and I don't know what the demand for the trees is, 70 that stuff, right? That quantity is random, right? Because there's an outcome of demand and how many trees are ordered. So it's a random quantity. I can't maximize a random quantity, but I can maximize statistics of that random quantity. It doesn't make sense for me to maximize a random that lets you maximize a portfolio. Let's say you think about maximizing the returns of your portfolio, right? There are many ways to do this. The Nobel Prize winning way to do this is called the Markowitz portfolio, okay? And that maximizes the expected return in the portfolio minus risk measured in terms of like, standard deviations of things like, so I'm just sticking with the expected return question over here. Why would be fancy? You could also think about the risk, but I'm just sticking with the expected thing. And so expected profit, not unlike how you would manage a portfolio, right? Because you don't, you don't know what returns and now why. I'm sort of taking this to be normal, just for convenience. It doesn't have to be okay, okay, so what we're going to do will work for whatever. If you have some weird distribution where it's either high or low, which is not normal. All right, okay, so once I think about this problem, all right, this is, this is the problem I want to solve. This is me just cleaning it up. Let's just kind of think about what we'd like to do. Okay, so I'm going to skip to this one I had like an animation, but it's not particularly interesting. Okay, so I want to think about everybody clear on the problem we're after we got to figure out this quantity, right? Okay, so I want you to help me with sort of thinking about this sort of profit maximization problem conceptions. Okay, so here's kind of how I'd like to kind of think about it, right? So when you do profit maximization, what are the two things here you're measuring for, for your, I don't know, econ class that you chose, yeah, marginal cost and marginal revenue, right? You gotta do this. Marginal revenue goes marginal cost. Nonsense. Actually, it's something very simple. What are we really saying? We're saying listen, now, if you buy one tree, right? It costs you $15 buy two trees, it costs you 30. Buy three trees, it costs you 45 and so forth, right? And so we're sort of saying, if we kind of do a fixture here, right? And I bought one tree, I bought two trees or whatever, right? I'm going to have this sort of picture of my total cost, right? So this is total cost, right? It's going to go linearly, right? So this is quantity, right? So if I think about my total cost, the more trees I buy, more I have to pay, and that the shape of that curve is linear. Everybody with me. So that's the cost side. How about the revenue side of this? What is the shape of the revenue curve as a function of, you know, how much you actually buy, right? What is the shape of that curve look like? Get a new hand, right? So this is the cost curve. I hope everybody agrees. Is the cost all they're saying is, you buy twice as many things, it costs you twice as maybe at volume discounts. I'm familiar with volume discounts now I'm asking about the revenue curve. Go ahead. Yeah, so you're sort of imagining maybe a picture. You're telling me you're matching a picture that looks maybe something like this, right? This is a picture Rebecca why? Why does it have this diminishing shift? Because

Unknown Speaker  1:14:17  
the marginal revenue goes

Speaker 1  1:14:19  
down. Why that's the same thing, right? This is tautological. Saying that the micro revenue goes down is the same as saying The shape looks something right? My question is, why does the shape look like this? Part

Speaker 4  1:14:32  
you multiply each additional Cuba the probability you're

Speaker 1  1:14:36  
going to sell, yeah, because I may not sell a tree, right? And the more trees I have, the bigger the chance that a subsequent tree won't be sold, right? Does that make you sense? Right? So as I go further and further out, the chance that I'm subsequent tree is lower and lower right. Like the chance that I sell my first tree is super high. I'm almost certainly going to sell right? 30,000 is the demand, right? Like one of the chances you would sell at zero trees, very small. So I'm almost certainly going to sell that first tree, also probably almost certainly going to sell the second tree, slightly less, right? And slightly less on the third tree, slightly less on the fourth tree. By the time I get to the 30,000 tree, it's starting to kind of like get meaningful, the risk that we won't sell, it gets only lower and larger. By the time I get to the millionth tree, what is the chance itself, probably close to zero. Okay, you guys see this story. So that's why, for what Rebecca is saying, I expect that marginal revenue is going to look like this, right? And so as a result, we're saying, listen, to maximize profit. I'm looking for a spot where marginal revenue equals marginal cost. Okay, so given this conceptual picture, let's kind of think about this from an optimization perspective. Okay, let's work through a little bit of the math of it, right? And by the way, if you, if you need to, you might need to follow the math after class as well, right? But it's the reason I'm doing this is to kind of just work through this, right? Just work through it once, and then we'll kind of step out and we'll see its consequences, and so on and so forth. Okay, so what are we really saying? Okay, so let's imagine for a six quick second that we bought, we've already bought, you know, Q trees, you know, Q units, right? And we're considering, you know, buying q plus one. Okay, so I've already bought Q and I'm considering buying a q plus first, okay, and what I'm asking on that q plus first is, what is the marginal cost? What's the marginal revenue? So let's start with the easy one. What's the marginal cost of the Q plus first street for the Christmas trees, 15 bucks, right? This is just $15 Okay, the marginal revenue a little bit tricky, right? Marginal revenue is a little bit trickier. So as we sort of think about the marginal revenue, right, we're thinking about that q plus first tree. What are the two events of interest for that Q plus first tree? There's only one of two things that can happen to that q plus one tree, right? What are the two things that can happen? Either I sell it or I don't, right? That's it. So either I sell the tree, okay, so probability we sell q plus first tree. How much money do I make if I sell that tree? How much do I get in the bank? No. 105 bank? No, this is revenue, right? So I get $105 and if I don't sell it, okay, q plus one, how much do I get? Five bucks? Okay, everybody good with this, right? So this is my marginal cost plus my marginal revenue. Okay? And conceptually, we're going to figure out, when does marginal cost equal marginal revenue? That's what we want to figure right? Everybody with me so far, yeah, okay, so now let's actually think about this for a quick second. Okay, how big does demand need to be for me to sell the q plus first three. How big does demand need to be for me to sell the q plus first three? At least q plus one, right? If demand is q plus one or higher, I will sell the q plus three. So basically, this event is the same as the demand being bigger than Q, right? Because if the demand is bigger than Q, yeah, I'll sell the q plus first three, right? It's like saying q plus one is 101 well, if demand is bigger than 100 Yeah, I'll sell that 100 and first tree, okay? And similarly, when will I sell the q plus first tree? Go ahead, Alex, if demand is less than q, right, demand is less than equal Q, I won't sell the q plus first tree, right? This is like saying I have 101 trees. Demand was less than 100 less than equal 100 Yeah, you're not going to sell everybody with me? Yeah, okay, good. Now I'm sorry, less than equal, right? Because basically, I'm considering the sale of the Q plus first tree, right? So think about it, but let's say q plus one is 101 right? What's Q 103 if demand is up to an or equal to up to or equal to one, yeah, exactly. Okay, good. So now we got here, right? I want to do one little simplification, right? The probability that the demand is bigger than something is one minus the probability that it's less than that, right? So this is the same as one minus the probability demand less than equal times 105, press the probability demand less than equal Q times five, okay, and I can now simplify this, right? This is the same as 105 minus the probability demand less than equal Q times 105 minus five, which is 100 Okay, so now, if we ask ourselves, now we so we work that marginal revenue. So we, this is our marginal revenue, right? This is marginal revenue for the Q bus First Street, and this is marginal cost for the Q bus First Street, right? So now we're saying, if we want marginal revenue equals marginal cost, that's the same as saying, well, $15 for a marginal cost, okay? Is the same as, you know, 105 minus probability d less than equal to times 100 okay. And if I simplify this, this is the same taking property d less than equal to on one side, right. This is the same as saying that the property d less than equal to okay equals 105 minus 15 divided by 100 equals 90 over one. It's 90% so you can follow the algebra later, if you like. Okay, here's what we've done. So let's forget the algebra, right? I want to do it once. Okay, so let's forget the right? What have we said? Conceptually, conceptually. We've said marginal cost just keeps increasing linearly. Marginal Revenue kind of follows that little curvy kind of thing, like Rebecca was saying, I want to find the spot where modular gravity equals marginal cost, right. And this is telling us that, hey, find the quantity so that right probability that demand is less than equal to that quantity is 90% that's the optimal answer. Okay, that's the optimal answer. Now let's just kind of think about this in a picture. Okay, and then we'll quit, right. Basically, what we're saying is, right. What is demand? Right? Demand? Was this, like, nice normal distribution of this was the nine, right? And let's say this is our need. Our need was 30,000 right? What's the probability that demand is less than equal 30,050% for this normal distribution, right? The problem So, if I ordered over here, right, the probability that demand is less than this, that's 50% that's not the right answer, right? So should I move left or right? I move right, right. So let's say I move a little bit to the right and I move here, okay, and the probability that demand is less than that quantity is not going to be bigger than 50% right? I want to keep moving this, okay, until that probability, which is really this area over here, right? We want this to be, what I want this to be, 90% so what we're seeing is actually there is a way to think about this problem. Okay, the way to think about this optimally is simply to say I need to look at the margin structure. And given the margin structure, this is going to tell me how much to the right I need to be. Let's imagine for a quick second you flip things around. Okay, let's imagine right, that basically you're selling a product where it costs you $15 but it cost you $114 right? And the product, basically, you got nothing for it if you tried to salvage it, right? What do you think this quantity would work out to? What do you think this quantity would work out probably work out to be way to the left, right? So this is kind of what's going on. Okay, basically we're saying based on margins, we can embrace uncertainty, and we can figure out exactly what the right kind of performance quantile we shoot for after B. Alright, I want to stop. When we come back tomorrow. We're going to actually kind of translate all of this to strategy. Okay, that's that's the game plan for tomorrow. when we.

Transcribed by https://otter.ai
