Speaker 1  0:00  
Don't want to carry gigantic amounts of inventory to do that, because that has costs associated with right? And these costs are actually really impactful. They're not like, kind of, like, this tiny thing that nobody worries about. This, like, actually moves like returns, right? This moves market returns on your stock. It's significant enough for that, right? Because, okay, this is like an important trade off, right? When you sort of think about this, right? You know, one way of having inventory kind of move or turn really, really fast is carrying very little inventory, right? If you carry very little inventory, it would turn really fast. Why is that not a great idea, right? I said, Hey, you know, it's great if things turn fast, right, so I can carry regular inventory. I know I would sell it right? I'd probably sell it quickly. That would be inventory that's turning fast. What's that a horrible idea? Yeah, sure. I'm leaving a lot of money too, right? So it's not just enough to turn fast, right? Yes, that's very important, right? That's something everybody looks at, but it's very important. At the same time, you want to capture as much of the market as possible, right? That's what makes this actually interesting, right? And so we said, okay, you know, if we lived in a world where everything was certain, we knew exactly what was going to happen, it's not a hard problem, right? Because you kind of plan things to cover exactly the demand you have, and you kind of do this sort of just in time with the right amount of inventory and so on and so forth. Wouldn't be wasting a thing, right? That's like the equivalent of, like, Burger King having, you know, as, like, exactly as much, you know, processing capacity as demand, right? But just like the Burger King story, we have uncertain, right? And like yesterday, I showed you this picture of the whatever knee high over the knee boots, whatever it is, right? And such, that weird picture kind of captures the struggle wearing right? And on the one hand, I'm like, sitting here, you're in advance going to guess at, you know, are people that I want to wear over the boots next year or not, right? And I have some signals, and I can look at a lot of data and so on and so forth, but that's fundamentally something uncertain, right? And so that was kind of the struggle we were kind of dealing with. And we said last time yesterday, that we want to sort of think about a clinical example that kind of captures this trade off. Okay, so the critical example was Christmas trees. Okay, so we looked at Christmas trees. We looked we're thinking about selling Christmas trees this year, but we know that in historical years, okay, we've sold, on average, 30,000 trees, right? How many trees should we buy? We did a little bit of thinking here. We said, well, listen, that's not as straightforward as it seems. So like, intuitively, maybe one answer is the average is 30,000 number more than 30,000 right? But then, as the wheels start turning, we said ourselves, no, but wait a second, right? What's the cost of losing a sale? Right? If the cost of losing a sale is way, way larger than the cost of having one too many trees. I would rather err on the side of having too much rather than too late, right? Why? Because, and in this case, that was the case, right? But when you looked at it, you said, listen, the cost of actually losing a sale, okay? And I'm going to call that, okay, sort of debating whether right on the board or right here. So I'm going to call that my sort of under stocking cost, okay, what's the cost of having too little inventory? Let's call that my under stocking cost, right? What's my cost of having too little inventory? Well, it's basically, this is the opportunity cost of not having, you know, one extra Christmas tree, right? And in this case, that opportunity cost was, you've made $90 right? You sold the tree for $105 it cost you $50 105 minus 15. So that under stocking cost, right? In this case, you know, we call the 100 and 100 505 minus 15, $90 okay, so is that understocking cost? And then the other sort of thing was, okay? Similarly, by balancing this against an overstocking cost, right? The cost of having one tree too many, right? Having one tree too many over here, right? The tree cost does, I don't know, $15 we sold it for five. We salvaged it for five. So essentially, I'm losing $10 on a tree I can't sell. Right? So what's that overstocking cost? That overstocking cost is 15 minus five.

Speaker 1  4:48  
So the question was, okay, I've got this under stock cost, this over stocking cost. How do we translate this, okay, into how much inventory I opted right? So yesterday, we did this sort of marginal revenue marginal cost analysis. I got the answer. Not quite. We got to sort of most of the answers. We didn't translate that to a number which we need, but we got to kind of the conceptual thinking of how we would get to an answer that balanced this under stopping cost and this over stopping cost, right? I want us to think about that answer we got to yesterday in a slightly more conceptual way today. Okay, so forgetting about the derivation from yesterday for a quick second, right? Really, what is the game that we're trying to play? Right? The game we're trying to play? Here's demand, right? This is our demand, and we know that our average demand is whatever, 30,000 right? That's our average demand, 30,003 Okay, so our intuition is, hey, if we ordered right in the middle, right, that's probably not a great idea. Why? Because if I made a mistake slightly to the left, right, I might earn more money from that mistake, right? Like, because why? You know, the cost of having too little is $90 the cost of having too much is $10 and that was this thinking that we've gone through, like, very, very carefully in yesterday's analysis. Yesterday's analysis suggested that, basically, the way you want to be thinking about how much inventory to order is to say that I want to pick a quantity, okay, such that the area under the curve to the left of that quantity, okay, equals some, some target rate, right? Yesterday, we got the target rate of 90% everybody. Everybody remember this? Right? We said because, okay, because right the way this market structure works, right? We want the chance okay, of somebody getting what they want to be 90% put a different way. We want the service rate okay to be 90% we get a different way. We want the chance that somebody doesn't get what they want to be, no more than 10% right? That was kind of what we got, okay? And the question was, okay, where would that be? Right? Well, if we ordered over here in the middle, right, what's the chance that, you know, somebody doesn't get what they want? 50% right? It's anytime. Demand exceeds that number, and that's 50% so chances are, so it stands to reason we need to be to the right, right? And we said, look, we need to be maybe at some point here. Okay. And the calculus here was really the following, okay, so if I expressed all of yesterday's thinking, we said what we would like right this area is the probability that demand is less than equal Q, okay, let's say that's Q, right. That area is the probability that demand is less than equal Q. What we really said was we want that the probability that demand is less than equal Q equals u divided by u plus O, okay, this is really the formula we derived yesterday. Okay, we did it with the 90 and 110 and all that stuff, but this is what we basically said. We said we want to pick the queue so that our service rate equals u over, U plus over. So let me just say this again. Okay, let me just say this again. What we said yesterday was really I can use margin structure to figure out a target service rate. I can use margin structure to figure out a target service rate. The question becomes, what is that target service rate? And the answer is actually really simple, that target service rate is simply the cost of understocking divided by the sum of the cost of understocking plus the cost of overstocking. Okay, and so in this case, the cost of understocking, you know, what's the cost of losing a sale? That's what's in the numerator, right? What's in the denominator the sum of the cost of losing a sale and having too much, right? So let's just think about this intuitively, right? That's what would happen over here. Let's say that the cost of losing a sale was really small relative to the cost of actually having, you know, too much inventory. What would this target rate be? Cameron, and we shifted to the left, right? That's intuitive, right? If something costs me, you know, 100 bucks, I need $101 and if I can't sell it, it's worthless. Really don't want to take the risk of adding too much, right? And that service rate would be like way to the left, right? So really, you sort of think about what we said yesterday, our all of our analysis yesterday has told us that, basically, hey, you can use margin structure, okay, to think about what the right service rate for your customers is, okay? This is not something you pull out of thin air, right? You say 99% 98% No. Where does that come from? Right? That's That's crazy, right? Instead, that target service rate needs to be involved by trading off two costs. One is the opportunity cost of a lost sale, and the other is the cost of having too much Okay, so this is the content of the discussion yesterday. Basically, what we concluded yesterday was when it comes to thinking about a service rate like any other decision. This is not something we pull out of the neck, but it's something that we can talk about optimally, okay, and that optimal answer, that optimal target service rate, is entirely a function of these two costs, the cost of understock and the cost of overstock. Okay, let me pause here for questions. Good job,

Unknown Speaker  10:42  
professor. I

Speaker 2  10:44  
was thinking maybe for a majority, but there will be a lot of scenarios new product introduction

Unknown Speaker  10:54  
promotions. Well,

Speaker 1  10:56  
let's think about this. So even if you have actually this is particularly useful in new product introduction, and not even just for this. You can actually think about, you know, using this. So I'll give you another example. This has nothing to do with inventory. Okay, so, you know, large pharma companies, some pharma companies need to build because of how they build their drugs. Need to build what are called bioreactors. Okay, so bio reactor, it's like, similar making beer, okay? You start with huge quantities of something, and then you repeatedly, kind of distill it down, produce a certain amount of protein. Yeah, that's, that's essentially what's except that, right? Like, it has to be really clean and this, and that is after no contaminant bio reactors, because billions of dollars to build. Okay? So now let's say you're a drug company, right? You have a drug coming to market. You sort of think about it. Drug has limited life, right? Because you have patent protection and that stuff like limited life. So you want to actually, but the strategy for these companies is to you want to lose any market, right? You have, like, 10 years of capturing the market. You want to lose one of those years. It's like 10% of your market, right? So you want to make sure you're good to go immediately. And those bioreactors take, like, years to go. So typically, when these drug companies make decisions of like, Okay, how much bioreactor capacity? Okay, right? And the demand is completely uncertain in that context, right? It's driven off of like, hey, what do I think? Two things, okay, one is, what do I think demand would be by sizing the market? And two, what do I think the chances are that this drug is going to be successful, right? And I have, like, a sense of that, because, you know, I'm certain a certain way through the pipeline, right? It's far from short. So this is actually very, very useful anytime you see any sort of uncertainty, okay, the requirement, and we've not talked about this, right, so far, right? Like, I don't know how to evaluate this probability, right? And what is this probably driven by? This probably is driven by my understanding of what the distribution of demand is. So this is only going to be so good as my understanding of the distribution of demand. And so what I want to do next is kind of go from this understanding right, saying we have to be here, right, to understand, Okay, what does that mean for Q? How big should q be? How should we think about that? And that's what I want to talk about in a second. But before we go there, I want to make sure that we kind of understand this notion. All we're saying is we can think about service rates, okay, like any other optimization problem, this is not something we pull out of thin air. You can think about this rationally, okay, what our service rate ought to be, yeah. So in order to appreciate that, we have to go a little bit further, and we'll be talking about that Thursday. Okay, you can imagine good you think in the right direction. It gets more and more complicated, but I promise you that Thursday, same stories that you do for your case on Friday, you know, he

Unknown Speaker  14:03  
applied this model to services. So

Speaker 1  14:14  
I think the way I would sort of Yes, right? The way I would sort of think about this is this can be useful in capacity decisions, right? And in particular the example of giving you a job earlier. What's a capacity decision? Right? Do I need a bioreactor for you know, joining one bioreactor, joining two direct do I need five? Right? Those are capacity decisions, and you can apply this sort of thinking over there. Yeah, for sure. Go ahead.

Unknown Speaker  14:40  
Really works for normal. Works for

Speaker 1  14:43  
any distribution. This works for any distribution. There's nothing specific about the normal distribution that went into this, into this derivation. This is true for any distribution, okay, other other questions. Yeah, sure. This might sound the best. I was trying

Speaker 2  15:01  
to think so just calculating, like something that has a price of 110 and a very low mark, basically, have an example. Oh, okay,

Speaker 1  15:16  
okay, good. So if that question remains, then we'll come back. Okay. Okay, go ahead. So

Unknown Speaker  15:21  
just for me, the last part of the

Speaker 1  15:30  
it's the role. Which last part? What do you refer to? There's only two things, yes, so you is this customer, the always the customer too much, right? So it cost me $50 I get only $5 when I salvage $10 Okay, so in particular, like yesterday, I used some terminology, right? Like I had these C, R and D, right, up over here, right? What I'm calling you. Okay,

Unknown Speaker  15:58  
hold on a second, stupid pencil,

Speaker 1  16:02  
it's I could swear this dude charges overnight and it's 0% I don't know what's going on. Most frustrating thing in the world.

Unknown Speaker  16:14  
Sorry,

Speaker 3  16:15  
classroom is cursed. 70. That's one constantly complained about, the clickers now, like

Speaker 1  16:22  
I'm all about simplicity and like, this is just like killing me. If I hope this works, come on faster. All right, all right. So what I'm saying is u is r minus c, and I'm saying O is c minus b, okay, so just using a term U and O, because it's just easier to remember than RC and because RN C and C minus usually is critical ratio, right? Yeah. So one term for this is to call it a critical ratio, right? But right, okay, right? Like often people call this a critical fractal, or something like that. I just wanted to think about this as a way of getting at your target sources. All right, good. So given this, right? So this is what I basically said, Okay, I've just cleaned it all up, right? We've discussed all this. I've just kind of cleaned it up on this slide. All right, okay, here's what we've not said. We've asked ourselves now what is, what is that Q? Right? If I want Q to be such that I've covered 90% of demand, what should that q be? Okay? Now this is actually related to kind of stuff you did in DMD, right? In DMD,

Speaker 1  17:41  
right? Does not the DMV. You guys did this stuff with, like, z values and Z table, big graph, right? It's actually related to that. But I don't want to have to, like, Drudge up all that stuff, right? So I want to just sort of for everything we'll ever do. Okay, I'm only going to restrict ourselves to a few different values of this number, okay, later on, you can do other numbers, right? And so I'm going to add, like, a handy lookup table, okay, so here's the lookup table, okay, and just bear with me, but this will make our lives a little bit simple, right? So I'm going to call that u over, U plus O, right? This this critical factor, okay, um, based on what that value is, right? This is how much you're going to order, okay, q star, the amount you order, right is going to look like, mu, the mean plus a little bit more, right? So remember what we said, right? We want to order, the mean plus a little bit more in this in this context, okay, and so what is that plus a little bit more? Well, if this calculation tells you that you your target service rate is 90% that plus a little bit more is you add 1.28 times the standard deviation. Okay, so let me just say this again, right? What we're saying is that, hey, we know that 30,000 is coming up. We want to order a little bit more, right? And what we concluded was, over there, we need enough inventory to cover 90% of our demand. So what does that translate to in the context of this normal demand? What should the inventory order actually be? What I'm saying is that it needs to be the sum. Needs to be this quantity here, okay, the sum of the mean and k times the standard deviation, but k is determined based on what this probability is, okay, so we'll do this a few times and we'll get familiarity. Okay, so in the context of, like, the Christmas trees, right? What was mean? What was mu for our Christmas trees, 30,000 right? So for Christmas trees, let's call this Christmas trees, right? U is 30,000 sigma. This was 10,000 Okay. And now we have to ask ourselves, what k should we use? Which of these case should we use? Okay, well, we look on the left and we say we want our in stock to be 90% right? So the K, we ought to use 1.28 Okay, so basically, K, we know that k, 90% is 1.28 right? And so what should our q be? So our q is 30,000 plus k, which is 1.28 times 10,000 that's about 43,000 trees. This is making sense, right? And by the way, you're probably asking yourself, well, how do I kind of get that kid in general? In general, you get that k by using those Z tables, right? That's exactly how you get that. Or if you're lazy about it, you can do it in Excel. Right? Excel has something called Norman, right? You can use that function to actually say, hey, if I would normally random variable with this mean and this standard deviation, and I want you know it's eighth percentile. What is that? If I want its 99 percentile? Will tell you the reason I've kind of broken this down this way is not because I want you to have facility with the calculation, but rather because this formula is going to be interpreted. Okay, I want to use this formula to drive strategic thinking again, and that's why I'm showing you this formula in the first place, right? But first we need to understand the formula, right? And so here's where we are. What we've said is looking at this context. Over here, we wanted our target service rate to be 90% right? That's where we got to u over u plus O was 90% and then we could look at this, and we could say, well, if it's a normal random variable to cover 90% of the distribution, right, I need to be at the mean plus a certain number of standard deviations. And how many standard deviations, 1.28 standard deviations. To cover 90 90% if I wanted to cover 95% it stands to reason that I have to be further to the right, right. And that's exactly what this is saying. If you want to cover 95% okay, you need to have 1.64 standard deviations, yeah, even further to the right. If you want to be at 99% you need to be still further to the right, 2.3 standard deviations. Okay, so the more you want to cover to the right, the big, the more standard deviations you ought to cover. That's what. That's what this is. Okay, questions with this, with this. And then Abdul from

Speaker 4  22:21  
that series, 70 state formula, you already get 90% events. I want to push you further to 95% Yeah. So I'm going to take the 0.95 and again, equal to this formula, and the U and the O will

Speaker 1  22:36  
well, you just told me 95% so this formula is no longer relevant. So what I'm trying to say to you is, as opposed to just coming up with a random number, 95% 97% and every time you have the instinct to do that, don't do that, right? You see what I'm saying. Instead, that should come from like a calculation, right? You should be asking yourself, Why am I? Why is my service rate 90% Why is it not 80% should it be 67% the point is, no, there's an answer. This is how you get that answer. Once you've concluded that, then it's mechanical for us to kind of come back and say, Okay, what inventory does that actually correspond? Does that make sense?

Speaker 4  23:18  
So if I want to push to 95 for 19 is up to my choice. It's just a choice.

Speaker 1  23:22  
It's up to you, but the choice ought to be driven by the facts of the problem, so at some level, it's not your choice. Okay, yes, you could do it, but it'd be silly to do something that's not optimal, right? Because you're losing money. Okay? So don't view so I guess, let me put it a different way. I really want to get this point home, right? Don't think of the service level as a level. I don't want you to think about the 90% or the 95% as a level. Yes, it is something you control, but it's silly to just move that arbitrarily. Right? Instead, you ought to be thinking about what drives the optimal choice of that level, and what drives the optimal choice of that level, creates your margin structure, okay? And we want to think much more carefully about that. Okay? That's, in fact, what today's entire class is about. Okay? When we discuss things outside of the tool, just for my understanding, yes.

Unknown Speaker  24:16  
So if I have the U

Speaker 1  24:21  
as well, and I have the U correct, no, you don't want to come up with the 95 yes based on the UN Yes. So step one, look at them. Look at the margin structure. That's going to tell you, hey, this business, I ought to offer, offer a 95% service level. This other business, it it just doesn't make sense. Okay, this is the service level I talked about. Once you've figured out the service level, you can then translate that to an inventory decision, right? And how we translate that to an inventory decision? It's based on the distribution of the matter, right? You need the mu, the sigma. You know that you wanted 95% so you look at this table, 90% 1.28 95% one point whatever. That's the high level. Just to get a little practice with this, let me give you guys some practice with this, and then come back. Okay, let's do a little bit of practice with this. Okay, here's kind of a little bit of practice. Please spend like, a minute and a half doing it with people, or two minutes doing it with people at the side. Okay, so, so I've tweaked the problem. Okay, I've said that the purchase price is $15 for a tree. The tree sells for $105 but you can salvage the tree for $14 okay, everything else is the same. So what I'd like for you guys to do is figure out how many trees you should order. Okay, so let me set the timer. Just talk with people at the side of you will force you to kind of just think through what You just discussed.

Unknown Speaker  26:02  
So Do I Angie got

Unknown Speaker  27:39  
already.

Unknown Speaker  27:55  
Okay,

Speaker 1  27:58  
so, Shira, I'd like to work through this with you. That's fine. There's all the more reason to work through it. Okay, this is related to the question, so what's the first thing you'd like to do at a matter meta level, right? We're asking like, what is our target service rate, okay? And we know that that's the cost of understocking divided by the cost of understocking plus the cost of overstocking, right? So in this context, what's the cost of understocking?

Speaker 5  28:42  
Um, stocking. So we need the price, which is 105, minus the cost. So

Unknown Speaker  28:50  
that's still 90%

Speaker 1  28:52  
$90 Yeah, what's the cost of overstocking? And

Unknown Speaker  28:56  
the customer stocking is the cost of the three, which is 15 minus the solid price, which is four. You minus the solid price, which is 414,

Speaker 1  29:15  
there's $1 Okay, great, so now we know this, right? So what is this? This is 90 divided by 90 plus one. That's 90 divided by 91 Okay, that's about 99% that's like 98.9 something percent. This is about 99% okay, so now we've answered the question of, what is our target service rate? It's 99% what would you like to do next? This was step one, and then step two was Q. Star is the mean, right? Plus some K. The k depends on the 99% we look that up in a second, right? It's a K of 99% whatever that is, time signal, right? Good. So in that, so in our case, lowest K, 99% it's 2.32 right? This is from this is from here, right? And so what do we have? We have that q star is mu was as before, 30,000k is 2.32 sigma is 10,000 Okay, and so that's about 53,000 trees. Everybody got this qualitatively. Does this make sense? Why? Why does this make sense? Qualitatively? Yeah, uh, actually, standard.

Speaker 6  30:51  
Now you want your your loss of like, losing the like over spell, is so low that you want to make more tree to kind of

Speaker 1  31:00  
Yeah. I mean, it's 90 to 91 right? Like, like, there's like, I lose $90 if I miss a sale. I only lose $1 if I have an extra tree. Okay, I want you to sort of right, like, now we can keep doing these calculations. I want to sort of like, exit calculations, right? Instead, I want to kind of just understand what we're seeing with this mu plus k sigma business, right? Really, what we're saying is, right, the amount of inventory we carry is the expected demand. Like, let's clean this up, right? Here's this one. This is kind of what we've been doing, right? That's really what we've been doing, that the inventory we carry is our base inventory, this demand, mu plus K, sigma, right? What don't we like about this? Right? This is the optimal answer, by the way. Right? This is the optimal answer, right? Like, like. This balances everything, right? But when you look at this, there should be something that you like. Can't I don't like this piece. What is that piece? Right? I know it's a big question. I don't like that piece. Shiva, the K signal party. Sorry, yeah, right. Because when you sort of think about it, your expected demand was kind of 30,000 trees, right? Why are we carrying that extra k signal?

Speaker 1  32:31  
Because of uncertainty, because of uncertainty. In fact, here's the crazy thing, on average, you're going to waste inventory, right? It makes sense, right? That on average you're wasting inventory, because the mean is 30,000 the mean is new. Mean is not new plus K signal. So on average, after the season is done, right, you looked at this season after season after season, right, every season you're wasting inventory, right? Any guesses on like roughly how much inventory you'd be wasting every season you'd be kind of throwing away, yeah, roughly the case signal, okay, crazy, right? It's saying, okay. It's saying that, basically, what is this picture telling? The picture is telling us that, because we have uncertainty, we need to have this kind of like Buffer inventory. It's like, it's like the it's like the offers, it's exactly like the waffles, right? So we say, because we have uncertainty, we have this like Buffer inventory, right? And buffer inventory depends on two pieces, right? It depends on k and signal, right? Everybody see this, right? So this is kind of, you know, inventory for nominal demand. And what we're going to call this is, we're going to call this safety stock, right? We don't like the safety stock, really, right? We don't like the safety stock. We have to pay for it, right? On average, it gets thrown out, right? But why do we have it? We have it because we don't want to run the risk of missing, making the, you know, the option missing, like $90 right? If you order new, if you order 30,000 then you wouldn't be able to take advantage of the seasons where demand was way higher than 30,000 but the price you pay for that is in seasons where demand is way lower than 30,000 you're throwing stuff away, but you're okay with that, right? We said, I make $90 versus I lose 90, you know, I lose $1 right? That's, that's kind of, that's kind of what happened. But nonetheless, that safety stock, right, is kind of just hanging out there. Okay, what impacts the safety stock, right? If we sort of think about this. So there's a few different things, right? The first thing is uncertainty itself, the sigma itself, right? So as sigma grows, your safety stock grows, that should be intuitive to you, right? Because we're saying, hey, look, if I have a perfect crystal ball and I know what exactly what demand is going to be, I don't need a lot of the safety stock, right? Everybody see their friends, and we say, Look, if it's 30,000 plus or minus, like 200 I don't need a ton of safety stock. I pretty much know what demand is going to be, but if it's 30,000 plus or minus 20,000 right? Yeah, I'm probably going to have to carry a ton of safety style. So the first thing you should see immediately off of this, right, is there's sort of friction. There's a transactional friction in carrying inventory. That transactional friction shows up as safety stock, right? Safety stock, it's inventory, right? And the extent of that friction scales with the amount of variability you have, right? The extent of that friction scales with the amount of uncertainty you have and demand, okay, that's, that's, that's one very important thing to take away. Okay, here's another thing I want you to take away, right? Think about how that safety stock, stock scaled, okay, when in the Christmas tree Saturday, when I asked for, you know, you know, a service level of 90% right? How much safety stock were we carrying? Anybody remember about 13,000 trees, right? So, right, because we carried 43,000 trees, right? Like the total was 43,000 best reminder, right? It's this quantity over here, right? So basically, for those Christmas trees, right, at a safety stock of United Service level of 90% our safety stock was 13,000 trees. If you increase this to 99% right? This became, this doubled, right? Let's imagine, for whatever reason, okay, we went to 99.9% okay, this thing would become, I think, let's see, it would become something like this. It would become roughly 30,000 trees. See something interesting happening over here? Right as your safety stock gets higher and higher and higher, as that target service level gets higher and higher and higher, the amount of friction you're going to carry is going to grow very non linearly in that target level. So let me just say this again, right? So if I think about this target level that we're trying to tackle, right, as we increase that target level, right, we go from 90 to 99 to 99.9 right? The amount of that safety stock you're going to carry it's going to grow very non linear, right? 90 to 99 you can argue that's an increase of, like 10% but safety stock increases by 100% right? You see, you see what I'm saying over here. So that's like a second, really kind of important thing. Okay, all right, so we kind of looked at all of this clinically, right? And here's what we've kind of concluded clinically, right? We've concluded three things clinically. We've not really taken this to practice yet. That's what I want to do next, right? We've not seen any of this in practice, but just from our clinical kind of like model of the world, what we're seeing is, look, there's a few things. The first thing is, uncertainty, variability rears its ugly head again, right? That's kind of responsible for all the crap that's happening over here, right? And so one thing we're seeing very clearly is uncertainty equals friction via us carrying safety stock, right? As soon as you have uncertainty, you need to carry safety stock. Safety stock costs money. The more the uncertainty, the more the safety stock, the more the money, right? That's very cool. The second thing that we're seeing right is that, hey, you know the way the safety stock, the way the amount of money we pay for the scale with this target service level that we that we offer our customers, that's highly non linear. Okay, so if I go from 90% to 99% right? In this context, the amount of safety stock I carry goes up by a factor of, like, two. It doubles, right? So you can say your service level has kind of increased 10% your safety stock is, like, basically double. Okay. And one thing, by the way, I like to keep in the back of our mind. If it's looking so sharp in one direction, it's also gonna be sharp in the other direction, right? So let's keep that in the back of our mind, you know, for, you know, for the future. And then finally, this is something we already recognized last time. Right, margin structure is the thing that we should use to inform what target level we want. Right? It's not something we pull from Connect. It's entirely based on margin right the u and u right? For instance, if u is smaller than L, then immediately we see that our search value is smaller than 50% okay? And so these are the three things we've taken away. What I'd like to do next, okay, is just kind of take this to practice, because, to my mind, that's kind of the best way of using this kind of stuff, okay, as opposed to talking about it theoretically, okay, I'll take maybe one or two cookie there's a handful of questions. I'll take a couple questions. Fine.

Speaker 1  40:19  
Go ahead. Yeah, great. So remember, we talked about R, C and B, and assuming that r is greater than c is greater than b. So you're saying, What if b is bigger than c? Right? I'd like, I'd like somebody to answer that question, right? What would you do if your salvage value is actually higher than your cost? James, it's just like

Speaker 3  40:38  
an arbitrage profit. You would just like, immediately start buying and reselling it like it wouldn't be possible. It's not a value perspective,

Speaker 1  40:44  
right? So that should not exist in a marketplace, right? Why? Because you could buy an infinite inventory and just keep making money, right? So that should not happen in a well functioning marketplace. If you do find it good for you, that's like a mispricing basically, right? Suzanne, because what I have

Speaker 5  41:09  
experienced is like, okay, like, the optimal level of safety stuff. But usually companies don't go that way because there's, like, warehouse constraints, cost a product availability. So at the end, they don't go with that amount of safety, of safety stuff that they go with, like one that is like, way lower than that. So my question is, like, how you run an operation from that perspective, knowing that your safety stuff is really not a safety stuff, it's like a little awkward.

Speaker 1  41:41  
So first of all, I kind of pushed back on that. So I'm pretty familiar with companies that do this, companies that are excellent at doing this stuff come very close to what we're talking about over here. Why? Because it's not they realize it just translates to making more money, right? And so that side, by the way, there's a lot of frictions to do, right? And the biggest friction, okay, are having observability and systems, okay? So systems that can actually implement change, systems that can actually observe this is kind of the inventory I have, systems that can track data and so on and so forth. Absolutely, those systems is very hard to kind of make this happen, right? So you have like, this big, this very big operation, but you know, everything's kind of done in different pencil. You have no process in place and so forth. It's very, very hard if you have like, first order issues. But once you get past those first order issues here, you want to try and get very close to this sort of stuff. And people work very, very hard to do this, companies like Amazon, Target, Walmart, but even the pharma companies have giant teams focused exclusively on it. So it's money. You don't like money, but the reason people like money, yeah, or maybe it's just a problem in my company. Who's the other? Okay, right. So what I'm saying is that to get to worrying about this, there are certain things you need to do on majority, right? So, for instance, to calibrate all of this stuff, giving data right, like I magically sort of told you that the demand for the Christmas trees was 30,000 plus amounts, whatever, if you imagine a ton of SKUs, you need to kind of be able to understand, all right, and so on the maturity curve, the first step is kind of knowing, having observability, having tracking, right?

Speaker 7  43:42  
Just so

Speaker 1  43:52  
in this particular setting, I'm not worrying about the carrying cost, but I will talk about carrying costs when we think about so here's the thing here. I'm talking about when they can order once, right? But in real systems, you don't make an order once, right? You order today, and maybe a few weeks from now, you place an order again, and a few weeks after you place an order again, and so forth. To cost things there, all these costs, transportation, carrying costs, all that stuff. And so I'll grow roll back into the model on Thursday, like we'll do something slightly fancy, right to get the whole picture. But for now, I want us to kind of deal with the basic trade off in gender transgender. This is already useful, as we'll see in the top two questions.

Unknown Speaker  44:40  
First is for to help me understand more about

Speaker 8  44:44  
Sure. So for luxury goods, yeah, factories even

Speaker 9  44:50  
refer to public Costa instead of selling. And another example is

Unknown Speaker  44:56  
about the virtual goods. So is there any inventory

Speaker 1  45:00  
concept? So if you think about virtual goods as a service systems, right, what we talked about last week, right? Because it's simply service systems. And so today, you just worried about, like, providing service, right? So there's no issue with luxury goods, right? I think the story is very, very tricky, because over there, like generic that marginal revenue, marginal cost thinking that underlie what we did actually doesn't really hold for luxury goods. Okay, so if you sort of think about that, sort of the standard rules of economics, right, those might hold for luxury why? Because they're, I think I mentioned this yesterday in class, right? Talked about Dublin goods in class yesterday. But these are goods where utility is not because of the product itself. Utility is because that's of the signaling value that the product reviews, and that's kind of a function of how many people have the product. And so over there, that's not econ 101, right? Or econ 202, or anything. It's just something you're rational, right? And so over there, all you're managing to the scarcity and your understanding of like, how scarce is scared, by the way, where it actually gets quite interesting is in these sort of, these sort of transitional categories below logic. Those are areas that are actually quite interesting, because they derive value from luxury goods, but the economics from this, right? We'll talk about concepts.

Speaker 10  46:31  
We will try to apply this approach to McDonald's.

Speaker 1  46:39  
So I think the place you want to apply this at McDonald's is actually thinking about how many burgers they make in advance of lifestyle. So let's imagine for a quick second, right at McDonald's, so McDonald's actually made full burgers in advance, like they made, like, a bunch of Big Macs. So the way you think about this in McDonald's is to sort of say, Hey, listen, I'm going to make these Big Macs. The Big Macs can only last for, like, I don't know, 20 minutes. Yeah, 20 minutes is topical, right? So I'm sitting here is 1pm right? What do I think demand for the Big Macs are going to look like between one and 120 right? So that's, that's kind of my demand, right? And then I'm going to sort of think about, like, calibrating. What does it mean to understuff? It's a little bit tricky, right? Like, you will still make a Big Mac to the person. It's just that they're waiting. So there's extra friction, you know? And what does it mean to over stop? That's like, relatively clear, because, hey, you lost the value, right? So that's our u and u plus O. And so as you think about it, the thought of them would be, what should my u be, right? And secondly, what's my demand coming back to, actually, Savannah question, right? If you sort of think about how to deploy this sort of logic, you can see the sophistication you need. Right? On the one hand, you need to understand the answer that question. What do you think your demand is going to look like between one and 120 right? I know that you're not going to be a number. It's going to be random, but what's a good description of that demand? And secondly, you need to have enough data on your system. Think carefully through, hey, what does it mean to understand from you? What does that cost of that delay and so forth right to be used if you do need some sophisticated exactly the sort of company that has this disability change, the very continuous little because that's that's a service business, but the same rationale I just talked about applies a fantastic right? So if you sort of think about the whole sort of enchilada, right, with with Burger King and McDonald's, it's both the service stuff we talked about last week, plus some inventory stuff. In the interest of time, I want to push over, okay? And I want to talk about Zara. I want to kind of apply all this stuff in reality. Otherwise it's just going to be boring, okay? And I did talk about this to talk about some random model, right? Genuinely believe it's useful. So I want to talk about Zara. And I want, you know, it's difficult to talk about a business just on its own. So I want to contrast the Tsar. I want to contrast Zara with the gap. Okay? And specifically within the gap, you can kind of the gap consists of three brands, great Banana Republic. There's the gap and there's Old Navy. So really, you know, imagine you're contrasting Zara with, like a banana republic. That's kind of the thinking, you know, that I want to, sort of, you know, have at the back of my mind, okay, just to, kind of, just to, kind of, you know, set the stage over here, right? Just to kind of give you a sense of like, how well these companies going the flat, like Zara is on fire, right? Like the company that owns our has been doing incredibly, right? It's a, it's a, it's, you know, it's a, it's a great company. You know, sales were about close to 40 billion euros in 24 a very, very healthy operating income. You know, the kicker on the eBay is close to 10% this is all very, very good stuff. You know, Zara is a big chunk of Inditex, right? That's ITX. It's about half of Intex index. Has other brands. They have, you know, brands that sell furniture, brands that sell, you know, men's clothing, specifically, you know, so on and so forth. So they have a few brands for kids clothes and so forth, right? But Zara is, like the heart of the brand, okay? So it's 2300 stores, you know, 96 markets. That's about 75% of their revenue. Okay, that's, that's, that's Cesaro is kind of the heart of the brand. You contrast those with the gap, the gap is an interesting company. So they were very, very hot in the 90s. I guess this brand was on fire in the 90s, right? Like, and to, like, I've seen a lot of smiling faces because, like, I think a lot of us are like, children of the 90s, so we sort of remember this, right? So they were kind of on fire in the 90s, right? And they expanded very quickly, and so on and so forth. Then they went through, like, a really, really bad time, and the company is still, you know, it's a publicly traded company, but a big chunk of the ownership is still sort of, you know, the founders, right, and the founders family, so over the last, you know, four or five years, they've, kind of, they started about four years ago, Thinking about how they might actually sell it, right? And, you know, there's this, there's this E firm where I know the folks that called Sycamore capital, that they wanted, you know, they were kind of angling for an exit from there never really happened, and really so what they've been working towards is health, okay? They've been working towards, you know, kind of reinventing themselves and so on and so forth. They're not small by any margin, but they're nowhere near the same health of a czar, right? So their sales say they're about sales about $15 billion across the gap, and operating incomes a lot lower, right? It's about a billion dollars, but a billion is actually really quite good, because five or six years ago, they were making a loss. So, you know, I think, I think they've been doing a good job, but this gives you kind of, like a macro sense of, sort of where they where they are, okay. How many of you have actually been to a Zara store? Okay, good. The vast majority. How many of you have been to, like, a banana republic or gap store, for the vast majority? Any sense, since you guys are business, right? Any sense of, like, you know what? What is sort of the average number of times, like a Zara customer? That comes back to the soul, not in general either, because I don't have the number in general. But what's the number in Spain? What do you think the number is in Spain? So the question is, how many? How many visits do they do in a year? Twice? Twice, twice per month, twice per month. Okay, it's a little bit less than that, like that, yeah, a year, at

Speaker 1  53:11  
least four times a year, 17. So actually very close to your guess you see it as though it's like obvious, of course, the number for Banana Republic, what do you guys think the number from? What do you think the number for Banana Republic was like 17 for tsar? What's it like for Banana Republic? That might be less than, yeah, because less than one, less than one, right? So, so these are, like, I don't know your facts. So here's what I'd like to, okay, here's what I'd like to. I would like, because it's clear that you guys have experienced both places, right? I'd like to do a little breakup for like, three minutes, okay? And what I'd like for you guys to discuss, okay, it's kind of how you perceive differences between gap or banana republic, right? Okay, what do you perceive as kind of key differences between these two brands, right? And why am I comparing them? I'm comparing them because on, you know, if I think about pricing, they're basically in the same they're kind of in the same pricing category. Okay, so what I'd like for you guys to do in your in your printout, is sort of say, you know, when you compare these two places, what are like, the big dimensions on which they differ from each other, from your perspective as a customer, to spend a Few minutes, I think that would be a Good One.

Unknown Speaker  55:20  
I Pizza Gospel,

Unknown Speaker  57:02  
Below the evidence. Guess,

Speaker 4  57:22  
What? You guys, what do you guys think? Okay, go ahead, yeah, focus on

Unknown Speaker  58:15  
the more fast

Speaker 4  58:18  
fashion. What did I mean to you as a customer? Delete times the turnovers of fashion. Okay, yeah. So they have, like, new

Unknown Speaker  58:30  
solutions, similar structures, plan your visits then,

Speaker 1  58:35  
okay. What does that mean to you as a customer? I guess, I guess what you're saying, Gary, is that the assortment is rotating rapidly, right? But it's always like being here to

Unknown Speaker  58:50  
customers, like, if you want to start like, for sure, using

Unknown Speaker  58:54  
top trends. I don't

Unknown Speaker  58:57  
like a big question.

Unknown Speaker  59:00  
Myself, I don't like a paper,

Speaker 1  59:03  
okay, right? And that's speaking to what Gary said. So the reason you do it twice a month, it's not a mystery. Your sort of changes, but there's a reason for you to go to the store. You go to the store, you see something new that's exciting. Maybe buy something. You show up like again two weeks, or whatever it is, you see more new stuff, right? And they are going to be super

Unknown Speaker  59:28  
cool In the catalog, just to

Speaker 1  59:42  
kind of set a picture for this, we're basically saying, like, this is kind of what you guys are talking about. So a seven season in this world, selling season about 16 weeks. Okay, so all of these guys operate on roughly 16 week selling seasons, and they right on 16 times four is 64 so clearly there's overlap, right? 52 weeks. So these seasons sort of overlap a little bit with each other, like 16 week seasons. That's how they climb. And if you're like the gap, typically, your assortment is like constant over time, right over the 16 weeks. But at Zara, it's kind of comical. It's exactly broken up into these little two week chunks. And so you sort of imagine that the assortment consists of a few things, you know, that these are kind of like evergreen things, right? That's going to be there the whole season, right? But then there's a bunch of stuff that's going to kind of rotate, you know, over the course of the season. And this comes back to, sort of, you know, Alexander's point of, like, hey, this gives you a reason to, kind of, you know, keep, you know, keep coming back, you know, into, into the store. So, you know, in terms of the assortment, we're basically saying at the gap, that's more or less static, and you're this is kind of rotating, you know, let's say every two weeks, something like that. Okay, other other distinctions. Okay, so price so

Unknown Speaker  1:01:06  
you are pretty much the same

Unknown Speaker  1:01:12  
today at both stores and where at the gap you look at like a white t shirt, yeah,

Unknown Speaker  1:01:18  
you know it's more so for basics, basically,

Speaker 1  1:01:21  
almost every occasion. Yeah. In fact, actually, as it turns out, you dig into you get a tiny bit more at Banana Republic, it's in the same ballpark. You pick smidge more, okay? And so what you're saying is, like, hit price, okay? And I have some pictures of price, like, right? Let's, let's see. Here are some pictures on price, right? So here are, like, price architectures, okay? And so this is Zara versus other kind of fast fashion players. This is kind of the distribution of the assortment. And that's kind of where the price, you know, the price bucket, so to speak. So you can see that. And this is a little bit still, right? So apply inflation to this, right? And I have a more updated thing on the next slide, but it's hard to get this visual. But you can kind of see where Zara sits right there tad above, kind of the H and M's and forever 21 doesn't exist anymore, right along, roughly along the same lines as, as, as, as, right? That's, that's kind of where, where they are, you know, if you sort of think about, like, price categories, this is kind of the rough price categories, right? The ranges for, like, basic tops, 25 to 50 bucks, pants, 40 to 70 dresses, 50 to 90 blazer, 70 to 150, you look at the same story of banana republic, it's just a tad higher. It's in the same ballpark, but it's a tad higher. And so to kind of your point, the prices are the same, but fashion content, you know, it's sort of, you know, high here, and this is what's the term you use, basics. Basics. Thank you, right? Basics. So they

Speaker 1  1:03:10  
have the basics. So they have the basics, they also have the high fashion stuff. Okay, I like other other points, you know, other other sort of differences that you guys see. By the way, I'm trying to, like, not be sexist here, and I'm trying to do like, an equal thing, very hard for me to keep straight. So anyways, I'm gonna just go back and forth, just so that I don't appear to be, Like, shopping, there is also content here around branded Angie,

Unknown Speaker  1:04:00  
yeah. So I think that there is also a concept

Speaker 7  1:04:04  
here around branding that you have more good for example,

Speaker 1  1:04:18  
yeah, okay, I like that place you don't wear, like the I like that. So there's something about the gap, like, if I, if I, if I can call the 90s vintage, right, the classic sweatshirt that has the gap written on it, which, like every kid in the 90s was wearing, right, along with, like the chinos or whatever it is, right? There is some kind of brand equity to that, right? That there is like, a, you know, a ton of, like brand identity, okay, so there's definitely some of that. Layla, is it by

Speaker 1  1:04:55  
now? Okay, I really like this, and it's not a luxury product in some sense, right? But there's a real feeling of scarcity, and actually ties in with what Alexander was saying. So if I sort of think about it, there's two there's two motions here. One, the stuff that they're selling is constantly changing, so there's a reason for you to keep going down. Two, you know, if you don't buy it now, it's not going to be there on the next chart, right? And they're very careful about this as well. So some years ago, we were involved in kind of project design, and a colleague of mine is still involved in that project. It's a pretty long standing thing. This is a picture of something that they give people in their stores. Store managers, okay, so store managers will get a card that looks like this, and what this card tells them is basically based on how quote and put broken the assortment is, this is whether they want to keep it on the floor or not. So what this is saying is, let's say you carry something in three sizes, right? Like small, medium, large, right? So if you have only a small and a large left, you're going to move it to the bathroom. You have only a small left, move it to the bathroom. If you have only a large move it to the bathroom, right? And so it's not just, you know, whatever. They're aggressively moving things off the floor. And they do have a little bit of a clearance, but it's nowhere anything like, you know, what might actually happen? So your chance of getting that again, right? So, you know, to your point to your point, there's almost, you know, there's a sense of buy it now, right? There's a sense of bias now, whereas, actually, what is the corresponding sense at the gap? What does that? What is that? What kind of behavior does that come? Okay? The availability, it's clearly not as cheap as I am, right? So I'm the kind of guy that goes to places like the gap and Banana Republic and I'll buy like, summer shorts in like October, right? He says. And it's ludicrous to do that over here, but it's great because I'll get it and like, like, I'll be, I'll be thrilled. I'll be very happy for myself, right? Because I've saved money and I've got these summer shorts. I'm gonna wear the summer shorts next year. When they're shorts, how different can they be? Right? But any event right, this is, this is driven by this kind of behavior, right? Like, if you have you've got the same thing, and it's still going to be there. I want to play this game of chicken with you, right? Where eventually you're like, shit, I've got to get this out of here. They got to drop prices. And so it's a game of chicken with consumers, where consumers catch on very quickly. And so these guys are in a very different equilibrium, right? So you have a use of discounting and promotions, right? Promotions, this is sort of by other differences.

Speaker 6  1:07:53  
Yeah, Sandra, I think, like when I go to I haven't seen in America, when I go to London, salaji, put different brand alongside each other and my family. Just like, let's go to this one which, like, higher, higher value, and then go to a cheaper one, and there's a team one. So you always end up, like, you can have different range of products that you can choose from, from different design even, but it's, of course, different server brand, but get I see, yeah,

Speaker 1  1:08:17  
so that you kind of talk about that brand portfolio, exactly. Okay, I'll steer clear of that, because I think we've got to think about a little bit that point a little

Speaker 6  1:08:28  
bit more carefully. When you walk in Southwest and more spacious in gap is, like, very messy, and you don't have that experience of, like, okay, shopping, yes, that's

Speaker 1  1:08:36  
actually a really interesting point. Yeah, that's actually a really interesting point. In fact, let me ask the broader question, how many of you have Been to the Zara store here in Boston?

Unknown Speaker  1:09:01  
So

Unknown Speaker  1:09:07  
yeah, my name

Unknown Speaker  1:09:19  
is Yeah, so across the street from the Zara store, it's like a more piano store, yeah, right? And these are guys that sell, like, $8,000 sweaters and things like that, right? These are the lemons,

Unknown Speaker  1:09:41  
like a sure,

Speaker 1  1:09:46  
like two stars to the left is like a Rolex, then there's like downstream, there's something else, and so on. And so they're fancy store in fact. Okay, let's picture is worth 1000 words, right? So this is a picture of a Zara storm in Spain, okay? So they basically, they basically bought, they basically did this old church that was the crap, you know, just just like falling to pieces, right? And deserted, and they restored it, and they built a store that looks like this, right? So this, like, genuinely creates, like, sort of a high end experience. I can't remember who started making this point. Who made this point about like, spaciousness? Oh,

Unknown Speaker  1:10:28  
it was

Speaker 1  1:10:30  
you. Yeah, okay, you're talking about spaciousness, right? So this is actually a metric people use in the industry. If you ask yourself, how much merchandise do you have right in every square foot of the stove, right? When you think about, like, since I mentioned, let's say you're talking about these $8,000 sweater stones, right? It's like eight sweaters, like a diamond, right? So they've got, like, you know, two sweaters here, four sweaters there, maybe a pair of shoes here, right? Like this one looks like a living room kind of thing, right? On the other hand, like, you look at the gap short and like it packed as much crap as he can so that, like, like, I'm not like a Laura piano kind of diary. I'm more like a gap guy. I can go find stuff very, very different experience that's a very, very different here's the thing, it costs a lot more money to rent that store Newbury Street than it costs, you know, to kind of rent space in like, some crappy law, right? So, besides, same price point, so why, like, how do they justify spending more, right? And why? Why are they even spending right? Why? Why are they doing this?

Speaker 1  1:11:51  
Okay, so one thing they're saying is, we want to advertise like our advertising is actually having these nice stories. Okay, that's true. They have like, you know, typically, like most of these retailers, marketing is basically about, you know, 5% 6% of revenue, pretty big chunk. And places like Zara, it's like one to two, right? It's time. So then you have marketing spend. It's very, very small, right? So they're taking those marketing dollars, they're using it for this, what

Unknown Speaker  1:12:22  
market? Just to differentiate.

Speaker 1  1:12:26  
Okay, so I have nicer stories, but to what end, great. Uh, none in that they were

Unknown Speaker  1:12:35  
catering to different

Unknown Speaker  1:12:37  
audiences. But

Speaker 8  1:12:39  
if you go into the product line is completely different in terms of quality than if you went into the Zara, say, in some other location, sure. So they have to differentiate to an extent,

Speaker 1  1:12:53  
depending upon the why skew like, like, sticking with my Newberry example, right? Like, why spend the dollars. It's very clear we're not spending like $2,000 on bizarre sweater, right? So why spend the money on the super fancy store that could just as easily carry $2,000 sweat? That's basically the crux of my question. Sure they have everything. So one is like, come back to this experience in the story, they wanted to be like a refreshing experience. You're not, not feeling rushed by yourself. Okay, good. Susanna, because in those locations, there's a lot of traffic. People like, for example, there's a lot of traffic people in a mall, no but more. Mall has a lot of traffic of people. That's why they have malls. So, right, yeah. Stephanie, in fact, I argue the traffic is a little bit lower, perhaps, right? It's a different it's almost a different crowd.

Speaker 2  1:13:56  
Stephanie, perhaps brand perception by association. Okay, so they're this global brand that's on the same level as these other

Speaker 1  1:14:09  
fire in okay stores. Okay, but they're more affordable, so they're more attractive, potentially, okay, so maybe good. So maybe one of the things they're trying to pull off over here is to sort of give you a sense that you're kind of buying very fancy stuff. Yes, right? You could feel just as easily buying, like, I don't know, a fancy brand, product, whatever. That's a fancy brand that came to mind, right? You're buying something fancy, visa fee, buying, you know, Banana Republic. They're kind of trying to create this. Question is, have you succeeded in this? And so I have a friend. His name's Jose Chan. Jose is actually a Sloan fellow from like, 12 years ago. And you know, Jose worked before becoming a Sloan fellow. He worked as a designer in the, you know, high fashion industry for all these Italian right, all these fancy Italian brands, right? But he's my good friend, and he's worked at work with me at a couple of companies and so forth. And he said, LBM, hm. So I asked him, like, you know, I asked him the same question, like, what is kind of the perception, right, like, so how you know, what are they going forward, right? And he's like, Oh, picture, who sent me a bunch of pictures. And so this is from a couple years ago. So picture a little bit stale, but I think they make the point really nicely. So here are pictures Jose sent me, and they're all like, famous people, right? Like, I know a few even, like, right, like, so that's obviously the

Speaker 1  1:15:49  
British, the prince of Princess of whatever this is. This is, this is J Lo, right. One of these two is a Kardashian. I guess, I guess this is the Kardashian. These are, like, some actresses, or whatever this is. This is Reese Witherspoon. What's common to all these guys, right? Jose, is that they're all mixing and matching Zara with stuff that's way more expensive than Zara, right? And so, you know, the lady at the top over there is mixing Zara with Dolce and Gabbana. The lady at the bottom is mixing Zara with Chanel, right? These guys are also doing some mixing. Here's something else. So then, like, I was curious about whether I could kind of find these pictures, right? So a couple days ago, I kind of went on a little bit of a Google mission, right? And this is what I find really interesting. So these are pictures from like, Khan, the film festival, right? And these are all like, I don't know, I guess actresses that go to Khan, like, I don't have their names. I should put their names there. They're all wearing Zara, okay, they're all wearing Zara. They should. They're not on the red carpet, to be clear, but they're all roaming around kind of wearing Zara. Okay, so, you know, and to this, you know, now, you know, you can even imagine paying some of these people, but Zara actually does not pay them. Okay, it's not like they're paying these people and they're like spokes spokeswoman or spokes models or spokesmen, right? So what are these guys pulled off at some level, right? What they pulled off at some level is, you've got a brand, okay? It's not expensive. It's it's affordable. It's priced at Banana Republic. But everything they've done, they've crafted it as, like, you know, seemingly high fashion. Okay, so how would you pull something like this off, right? So what's what's going on here? How does this relate to kind of all this newsman and nonsense that we've been actually talking about? Okay, what I like to do is I want to set something up in the next five minutes when I let you go and I'm going to leave you at, like, a little bit of a cliffhanger that I want you to figure out. Okay, so everybody gets the setup over here, right? Everybody gets the setup. Okay, if I were to kind of think about the supply chains underlying these two people, right? They're very, very different, right? Their supply chains are, like, just completely different from each other, right? So in particular, if I look at the gap, what does the gap look like? Okay, so there's some manufacturing, right? That manufacturing typically happens in the Far East, right? You know, whatever gets manufactured gets sent to a local a state side, DC, right, and then that gets sent out to stores. Okay? So these are stores, right? And this entire process takes 10 months, right? Because they want to get the fabric super cheap. They want to do the manufacturing super cheap, you know, all of that sort of stuff. Okay, so if you look at a picture like this, and you think about your target service rate, right? What's our target service rate? At the gap? It's u over, U plus O, right? What do you think O is? Right? O is the, essentially the cost of the stuff, right? U essentially relates to the kind of the gross margin, yeah, cost virtually nothing, right? So basically, they've kind of worked this to a place where O is almost nothing. That's great. And so u over u plus O, that's going to be really high, right? This quantity we talked about, that quantity is going to be really high, okay, the second thing is, they're doing this 10 months in advance, right? So what do you think sigma is going to be also high, right? So sigma is high. U over u plus O is high. So inventory, and in particular safety stock is also it's huge, right? And so if you sort of think about it that way, yeah, you know these guys, they've designed a system where they said, Hey, we're going to produce things 10 months in advance. That's going to give us the ability to produce high quality things, but very cheap, right? And that gives me a trade off where I have huge uncertainty in what's going to be popular and what's going to be not what's not going to be popular, but also, like, I can afford to make mistakes. And so that gets me to place where I'm producing tons of stuff, right? To put it in the store, because that's like, the economically rational, right? Every everybody with me on this, right? Okay, let's look at the same picture. Okay, at a Zara, right? So how does Zara work? Zara actually is vertically integrated, right? So they'll buy kind of the raw kind of material. It's often referred to as Greece fabric. This is like undyed fabric, okay? And then they'll actually, sometimes themselves, you know, cut and dye this stuff, okay? And this stuff, this sort of stuff, happens with events over a year in advance, okay? And then, having done this, right? You know, there's a sewing process. And from there, stuff gets sent directly to stores, okay, this stuff happens in season, okay, over a span of 16 weeks, this stuff, right? This is like the burger at like Burger King, right? That got put on the steam table, right? This stuff happens way in advance, okay, this is sort of 18 months, all right, so if I sort of look at this picture over here, right, since this is kind of happening 16 weeks in advance, right? If I sort of think about uncertainty, are we looking at something like this, or are we looking at something like this? It's the narrower picture, right? It's the narrower picture. Why? Because I'm doing this in season, so I have a much clearer idea of what you know, what's in stock, what's in stock, what's not in stock, and all that sort of stuff, right? Like, what's going to work, what's not going to work. Everybody see this, right? So my Sigma is actually smaller, right? So my Sigma is actually small. That's a great thing. Okay, what about u over u plus? O, Okay, what about u over u plus? O, well, if you think about the gross margins at Zara, they're nowhere near what the gross margins at Banana Republic of but they're still north of 60% okay, so, because their gross margins are north of 60% u over, U plus O, okay, it's going to be bigger than 60% okay, it's going to be Bigger than 60% so if this, if this u over u plus O is bigger than 60% Where are you going to order relative to this curve? Mean, to the left or to the right, right? So, so this is what we're saying, right? And this, this is kind of the picture. Let me do it on a clean sheet, right? This is sort of the picture. Sigma is really narrow, right? This is our mean, right? And I'm saying, let's say you over u over u plus O is bigger than 60% where would you place your order? To the right or to the left, to the right, right? That's what all this economic thinking tells us to do, right? All this economic thinking tells us we should order somewhere here. Yeah, so economic thinking tells us to order somewhere. It turns out Zara does not do it. So it turns out that Zara orders over here, sort of, quote, unquote, deliberately, are ordering to the left. This is the confine I want to leave you. Okay, so what I'd like you to think about is we understand Zara, right? We understand Zara. We understand the whole picture there. We understand why it's nicer. We understand the trade off. They pulled up, pulled off, right? It's used as high fashion. Still, it's affordable, right? And one of the things we've talked about all along is this sort of friction, right? Of being in a business where demand is uncertain. What I'm telling you is what they seem to be doing flies in the face of like, economic sensibility. Okay, so what I'd like you to think about between now and next time is, okay, if u over u plus O is bigger than 60% what in the world are they doing? Ordering on the left. Okay, so last time in question one. There's question two, either, okay, actually not that bullish on top, right. So I actually think that, like, this is kind of a they're doing really good, but I think it's like they owe the new boots. They kind of peak, okay? And there's some other business models that are that are emerging threatening, you know, so on and so forth. I'd like you to give some thought to right and it must be reflecting on what's amazing about jars. I like to reflect on how you killed them. It's how would you like take this business. On Thursday, thank you so much.

Transcribed by https://otter.ai
