Speaker 1  0:00  
Places like Walmart, Amazon and so on and so forth. Okay, I don't know if you've been like looking at the views, but these guys have been like hosting, like, roughly, rather than Amazon, especially, sort of, especially in the retail district. Very, very interesting. You're not seeing it. There's some interesting. But anyways, that stuff we're getting to on Monday basically pick up on where we left off, and get a good spot with respect to that. And then I'm going to kind of spend the rest of the morning trying to talk about Daniel and by the way, the way I see videos, it's also at some level, a build up to thinking about the portion of the supply chain that I'm particularly interested in with respect to places like Walmart, Amazon, okay, so that's kind of the game plan for today. All right. It's a bit of a quantitative session, right? But I think it'll be fun. Okay, so I want to kind of pick up, as I said, on where we left off yesterday, at some level, this is kind of the picture we were discussing yesterday, right? She's like the trade off between doing the thing on the left versus doing the thing on the right, right? What are the trade offs? Somebody remind me of what the two trade offs are? Over here Cameron, Holy Cross. Yeah, that's one side. What's the other side? Yeah? So, like, basically, on the left hand side, you're paying too much in holding costs. On the right hand side, you're paying probably too much in ordering cost, right? And we want to find that kind of sweet spot. And really, kind of our thinking was, you know, if we, if we sort of thought about, you know, our ordering quantity Q versus costs, right? We said that basically, you know, holding cost looks like this. You know, ordering cost looks like that. And so the sum of the cost looks something like this, right? And we figured out that really, we want to be somewhere over here in terms of how much we ordered, okay, so that's kind of the yesterday in a picture, right? Without figuring the math or the quant or anything like that, correct? You said, Hey, there's some sweet spot with respect to kind of how much we order. There was also a nice way of thinking about that sweet spot, really good. Here, that speed sweet spot was, it was kind of the point that sort of balanced, you know, the holding cost and the ordering cost, right? So we found a quantity where, for that quantity, the holding cost and the ordering costs were kind of balanced. They were the same sort of this intersection point over here. So reminding us of the problem yesterday, this was the problem, right? We said, Hey, what was our order quantity? Q? And we had this story with chips, where we said the demand for the chips was 400 units a week. We annualized that to 20,800 chips a year. Right? Those the cost of a single chip, that was $45 every time we placed an order, it cost us $500 and we said our inventory holding cost was 45% the way to interpret that was basically, you look at sort of the average value of the inventory you're carrying, and really what you're paying in holding cost is 45% right? And so this was the, you know, this was the data. And what we concluded was, if we looked at that picture I drew on the first slide, right where we wanted to find that quantity q, that balanced holding cost and ordering cost, it worked out to be exactly this. Okay, so this is, this is kind of where we landed up. We worked out what this quantity was, you know, in the case of, you know this, this example over here, this quantity was, you know, twice times. D was 20,800 F was 500 you know, C was $45 a chip, and H was 45% and this worked out to be about 1000 chips. Okay, so this is, this is kind of where, what we what we did yesterday, all right? So super quick review of everything we talked about yesterday. And then I kind of left you with this picture, right? Sorry about that. I left you with this picture. This is kind of the mental model we've been playing with. This literally the model we've been playing with, right? And I asked you to think through what was missing. So let's start then what's what's missing in this picture? Go ahead.

Speaker 1  4:15  
Okay, okay. So one, one thought is, this is sort of saying, you know, you know, as soon as I run out, I get a new order, and I have a lead time, right? So I'm going to kind of push back a little bit, yes, that's missing, but, but watch this, right? So let's say you said your lead time was, you know, whatever, five days. I'm making that up, right? And so one way of sort of thinking about this is, in order to get an order over here, right, at this point, I need to place an order like five days prior, right? Okay, so what I could do is, I could go five days prior, right? So let's say that's the lead time, which is, you know, five days in our example, right at that point in time, you know where my inventory is whatever level, right? But at that point, five days prior to when we're going to run out, I place an order for Q. And so, you know, Q shows up exactly five days later. And so that doesn't really change anything, right? You see what I'm saying. It just sort of changes the timing at which we place the order. Right? That doesn't kind of fundamentally change the model, but you're right. Like, we didn't, we didn't talk about it, right? But here I'm saying, Well, yeah, okay, if you have a lead time, let's say I made up five days. Let's just place the order five days early. It'll show up exactly on time. So if you're somewhere, sure of the demand that you're changing every day,

Unknown Speaker  5:40  
the demand that you're

Speaker 1  5:42  
changing every day. Okay, okay, so there's always, there's always a safe answer, right?

Speaker 1  5:54  
That's a pretty safe answer, yeah, yeah. So let's, let's actually think for a second of how variability may matter, right? Let's, let's give that some thought. Okay, so let's say that like we had this discussion about lead time, and what I did is, I sort of said, Fine, what I'll do is, right? I'm going to place this order five days in advance. Right? Now I have access to this picture, right? So I can I know what inventory level I'm going to be at five days in advance, right? Like I can look at this picture and say, Oh yeah, five days in advance, I'm going to be here. Let's call that inventory level R, okay, I'm going to call this inventory level R, whatever that is, right? Because I can draw this picture and I can say, okay, you know, I'm going to be at zero, then five days in advance, this is where I'm going to be. But just by drawing this line right now, I'm going to call that, that R, okay, so, so the current game plan, okay, for, you know, for our discussion, you know, is, I told how that, like, essentially, I'm going to monitor my my inventory continuously as soon as it hits R on the place, in order for Q. And then, you know, in five days, my inventory goes to zero, and Q will show up. That's the current one, right? Everybody good with this kind of current planet. Or now, you know, let's think about, I can't remember, show, right? Yeah. So show's idea was, yeah, or question was, what happens with uncertainty, right? Let's, let's think about what might happen with uncertainty. Okay, so, so basically, we're saying, listen, right. Here we are, right. Inventory has gone down. It's now at a level R, and we're going to place our order right. And what is our view of the future, if I'm kind of sitting over here at this point in time, right? What is my view of the future? My view of the future, if we're in house world, right, is basically Okay, exactly five days later, I'm going to run out, right? And Q units is going to show up, and everything's going to be good, right? Okay, that said, if now in I'm in shows world, what might actually happen five days from now? What are the possibilities show so we missed the chance. So you're saying we run out of inventory? Yeah, what would make us run out of inventory early? More demand than I expected, right? So basically, what show is saying is, look, I'm sitting over here. Let's say the demand over the next five days exceeds my expectation of demand, right? So I have some expectation of demand over the next five days, my lead time in this case, right? So I have some expectation of demand over the next five days, but if demand exceeds my expectation, right, what's actually going to happen? Well, if demand exceeds my expectation, I may actually run out somewhere here, right? And so then what happens over this period of time? I don't have inventory, that's a problem, right? Okay, so that's one side of variability. What's the other side of variability? Alexa, then I have less demand than I expected, right? So if I had less demand than I expected, what's going to happen? Well, what's going to happen is, you know, five days from now, maybe I'm over here, right? So that when the queue shows up, it takes my inventory high, and then I even expand it. Everybody seen this? Okay? So the issue is fundamentally, and it is kind of as, in a sense, the result of lead time, right? Because I can't respond instantaneously, right? The original plan was, okay, fine. I'll plan for the future. I know it's going to take five days for the inventory to show. So five days in advance, five days prior to pace, the order, then the show's point. Over the next five days, demand may exceed my expectation. The demand may exceed exceeds my expectation I'm gonna run out of inventory before that next quarter shows up and ask back. Making sense. Okay, all right, so what we try to do somehow is kind of fix this issue, right? We don't like these events, and we also don't like those events, right? We like neither event. It's kind of similar to a news vendor trade off, right? I don't like having run out that cost me something. I also don't like having too much inventory. I don't like that either, right? We don't like either of these things. Okay, so using our news vendor logic, right? Using our news vendor logic, we can sort of ask ourselves, what's the u over u plus O in this situation, right? What's, what's kind of the trade off between kind of, you know, sort of not being able to serve a customer when they show up, versus carrying some extra unit of inventory, whatever it is, right? So I can think about a target service loan. I step back. I think about a target service level, and let's say I come up with that target service level. Let's say that target service level is 95% right? That target service level is 95% really, what I'm saying is, Listen, I want the chance that I run out okay before the next next order shows up. Okay, to be, to be, you know, no larger than 5% right? That's, that's basically what, what we want. And so we've got to figure out how to run the system so that the chance of this bad stuff happening is controlled, okay? And it's controlled without us getting too much inventory, right? We want to, we want to manage that Everybody good with, sort of the issue in, sort of in a conceptual sense, Okay, questions about the setup, right? What we need to talk about is now how we manage the system. And I'm going to talk next about how these systems are actually managed in the real world. Okay, but before we get into that, any questions about the seven. Daniel, is it the case that you could also have uncertainty on the supply side, 100% so another way you could have uncertainty, and how would that show up? Right? One way of thinking about how that shows up is uncertainty in lead time, right? You thought that the order was going to get to you in five days, but in fact, it takes eight days. And so now, as a result, you know, you've run out of inventory as well. So very good question, right? So I could have uncertainty on the demand side, we also have the uncertainty on the supply side, which would manifest itself in terms of the effective lead time, right? Wonderful. Gary, yeah, I think it's actually 99%

Speaker 2  12:42  
small level in real life. How do we recite this percentage? This is

Speaker 1  12:46  
kind of what we've talked about in follows a week with the news vendor, right? So there's strategic ways of kind of coming up with that service level is effectively trading off between kind of having too much versus having too little. And in calculating how much? You know what the cost is of having too much, what the cost is of having too little. You have to, actually, for yesterday's discussion, think about things like long term value and so on and so forth. At least. That's how you'd actually strategically come

Speaker 3  13:16  
up with that number. Probably supplier may say, we cannot all supply the quantity q. So, you know, like, that's another, that's another thing that could happen. That

Speaker 1  13:25  
could happen as well. Indeed, Joe, go ahead, I was wondering. So after the first triangle where we

Unknown Speaker  13:32  
ordered too little too much, why wouldn't Q change in the subject?

Speaker 1  13:41  
What do you because Q is in our control, right? We are deciding how much to order every time you're saying, why don't we change the queue? Yeah, much? Yeah, it's a great question. So here's the issue with that. When did we place the order? It's not, yeah, so let's think about this, right? If I knew that this was going to happen, I could order less, but then that still is explained as, like, third triangle or fourth triangle, right? You still want more or less. That's right. You could kind of modify things, maybe going into the future. That's right, you could, you could change that, if you like. The problem with this is this results in policies that are very complicated to maintain right the data that's needed for these policies. These policies become very fragile. They're kind of casual. They end up becoming very sensitive to all the data that comes in the pursuit of optimality. You become very sensitive to errors and calibrate in this, in this, and

Unknown Speaker  14:44  
that's what,

Speaker 1  14:48  
that's what gets done right the most sophisticated supply chains in the world will do this. And why not? Because, you know, people aren't smart enough to think about how you might modify this rather step back, you just present yourself. Worth the effort, right? Like, at some level, economical tabulation, the issue inside, you end up with policies that are very fast to the data, that you actually have complicated policies, right? With a complicated, you know, you might say, oh, you know, my demand forecast was, whatever. But if that's not an accurate forecast, can really screw you up when you do this sort of stuff. Very, very sensitive to your forecast. What we did choose exactly what we did. We stick with that number until you know the statistics of like demand have changed. The statistics of demand, the same wouldn't change. Good, good questions, and I like to talk other, other other Questions about the setup over here, either. So

Speaker 1  16:05  
this is literally what gets applied. This is literally what gets you right. And you might recalibrate some of these quantities based on data right as you go along, but this is, this is more or less what gets done. Okay? It has some very nice properties, by the way, that we can talk about later. But first, I want to kind of just make sure we understand this before we understand think about more complicated All right, everybody do what this sounds. Okay. So really what? What's missing? Okay, what we have to think through. One way of thinking about this is, what we really need to think through, is, what is that? R, there's one way of thinking about our problem, okay. One way of thinking about our problem is, when should we trigger an order for Q units, okay, this is one way of thinking about our problem. When should we trigger an order for Q units? And so the policy that we're going to talk about is something called an RQ policy, right? Our Q policies basically, let's say, let's say, think about a place like Walmart, Amazon, whatever it is, right? So running these RQ policies on every single one of their hundreds of their hundreds of millions of products. Okay, so what is, what is an RQ policy? Now, our Q policy is literally the picture that we saw on the previous slide. Okay, which is, right? What am I doing? I'm going to watch my inventory level continuously. Okay, so I'm going to continuously watch my inventory level. As soon as my inventory level hits R, I'm going to place an order for Q, and that's it. Okay, now, when that order for Q shows up, okay, um, you know, again, the game repeats, right? Eventually, you know, inventory will go down as soon as that inventory level hits R, place an order again. Okay, so the policy is very simple to stick. The policy is order queue whenever inventory level hits R, by the way, let me ask you this, what sort of infrastructure do you need to actually be able to run a policy like this? Yeah, continuous monitoring, right? I need to have continuous monitoring of my inventory levels to be able to do this, and this, in and of itself, ends up being actually quite an expensive undertaking. In fact, it's probably one of the strongest business cases for things like RFID. Okay, so if you sort of think about companies that sell RFID, like the companies like Motorola and so on and so forth, right? RFID is a pretty expensive investment. Why would you make this investment. What's the business case? That's exactly it, right? It's to be able to continuously track the inventory you're carrying. That as soon as that inventory hits this level, you will place your order. Okay? So what we got to ask ourselves is, if this is the policy, how should we think about what r ought to be? Okay, so basically, our question is, you know how to pick off so

Speaker 1  19:12  
what a step back, right? I want to sort of sketch that picture I was sort of talking about on the previous slide, right? We were saying here, inventory was cute. You know, your inventory level went down, and as soon as you hit R, you placed it over, right? And then, you know, a lead time later. Let's call that a lead time, your next sort of order shows up, right? So at this point in time, the next order shows up.

Speaker 1  19:42  
So okay, all right. So I want to, like, introduce some some terminology here. Okay, so just, just for convenience, so I'm going to call the demand during this period, this lead time over here, right? I'm going to refer to that as ddlt, for demand during lead time. Okay, so this is ddlt, demand during lead time that happens between this point in time and when the next order shows up. Okay, ddlt, what kind of an object is? Ddlt, go ahead. Yeah. It's random, right? So ddlt is like a random variable, right? So I'm sitting here, as soon as inventory gets off one lead time later, my next order shows up, and the demand I see between placing my order now and when my and when the actual order shows up, that's random. That's a random variable, right? We're following that random variable, DDL, okay, all right, good. So let me ask you this, when would we have a stock up? When would we have a stock up? Okay, so stock up would be basically, right? You run out of inventory before the next order shows up. What would ddlt need to be for me to have a stock up? The question makes sense, right? The question is, what would ddlt need to be for me to have a stock up? A stock up being I run out of inventory before the next order actually shows up. I mean, why is that? Why would that result in the stock because stock

Speaker 4  21:29  
up. Because if any of those data

Speaker 1  21:35  
points on that whole section averages any higher than its name, then you're going to but what if our, what if our really high that we

Unknown Speaker  21:50  
is greater than two star minus

Speaker 1  21:53  
r actually greater than r, just right. Let's think about this. I placed the order. How much inventory did I have when I place the order, right? And now you know the next order is going to show up after a lead time, the demand during that period is ddlt. Yeah, right. So if ddlt exceeds the amount I have of inventory I have when I place the order, let me just say this again, okay, I place the order when I arguments of inventory with right, and then that order showed up. You know, at least I live. What was the demand I saw over that period? The demand over that period is exactly, ddlt, so the demand between when I place the order right and when the order shows up exceeds the inventory I have on hand. When I place the order, I'll have a stock up, right? So a stock out happens? If ddlt, okay, it seeds off. Equivalently, I have no stock out. Okay. If ddlt has less than equal let me pause here. Questions about this.

Speaker 3  23:19  
Go ahead Demetri. It concerns the DLT, how do we take into accounts as analytic effects and some let's worry

Speaker 1  23:29  
about all that a little bit later. Let's, let's, let's stick with the setup we have, and then we'll worry about adding drill scripts. Everybody, good, okay, but at the expense of repeating myself, I am going to repeat myself, right? So what are we saying? We're saying really straightforward, okay, so what we're saying is, really, I want to make sure that I'm asking myself, when do I have a stock out to have a stock out if the demand between when I place the order and when the order shows up exceeds the amount of inventory I had on hand when I placed the order. Okay, so the inventory I had on hand when I placed the order was R, right? And the amount of demand I'm going to see until the next order shows up is ddlt. If pdlt exceeds R, I have a stop up. I have a problem. Equivalently, if pdlt is small in R, no problem. Okay, so that's kind of really what, what we have here, right? All right. So given this setting, my question for you is, let's say that you want to by, you know, thinking through your like news, kind of thinking. You want to maintain a service level of 95% okay, you want to maintain a service level of 90 95% that is to say, right, the chances that they're ever out of image multiple is only 5% what does that translate to, in terms of this, ddlt and R and so on so forth, what Are we really asking for, if we say this broad vendor, so instead of factor times, not quite right, I'm asking like, like, What are we asking for? Probabilistically,

Speaker 5  25:20  
go ahead inventory that

Speaker 1  25:32  
you are standard deviation, that may be the answer, right. But what I'm saying is, before we even say that answer, right, what are we asking for in terms of, like, like a formal statement, like a formal probabilistic statement. Shira,

Speaker 6  25:46  
what is the probability that I would run out of inventory before I get anywhere? Correct,

Speaker 1  25:50  
right? That's kind of what a stock out means, right? And so we're saying, Listen, the problem. I want the probability of me running out of inventory to be 5% equivalently, I want the probability that, like, I have inventory, to be 95% right. And what is that? What is that, in terms of this, basically we're saying, Listen, I want the probability, okay, of no stock out right, to be 95% right. That's basically what we're saying, right? This is, this is kind of my goal. I want the probability of no stock out to be 20 95% Well, then why my property of no stock out to be 95% what does that mean? I'm saying I want probability. We don't we know what no stock out is, right? That's this event domain. So basically we're saying we want the probability that ddlt is less than equal r to be 95% okay, if we want the property of ddlt less than equal r to be 95% what does that mean to R? What should R be?

Speaker 4  26:59  
Go ahead. Ken R needs to be greater than u plus k sigma for 95%

Speaker 1  27:03  
Well, we know the exact, like that exact news vendor formula, right? The random variable over here is this. This is the demand, right? And this is kind of the quantity we're trying to figure so if I think about my news vendor formula, this implies that R simply needs to be the expected value of ddlt, right, plus k of 95% whatever that is, two point 1.64 or whatever, right? Times sigma. Ddlt,

Speaker 1  27:39  
right. So again, what was our thinking? Right? Let's, let's just go through our thinking again, step by step, right, our thinking step by step. So let's retrace our steps right, starting all the way with the conversation with, with how? Okay, so with that, that conversation started with saying, Listen, you didn't model lead time. So, okay, great. Let's worry about lead time, right? We said, okay, if I'm worried about lead time, what this means is that I shouldn't wait till inventory hit zero, right? I look for some level of inventory that's certainly above zero, right? And as soon as inventory hits that level, I place my order, because I know it's going to take time for loans to show up, right? And so the question we're asking ourselves, Well, what should that level be? Okay, what should that level be? Now, the intuitive answer, if things were deterministic, is that level should exactly be the demand during the lead, right? So in particular, if demand is like completely deterministic, and I know it takes five days for me, for the for the for the order to fill out, I'm going to place an order when the inventory I have on hand is exactly equal to the demand over five days, right? Everybody see what I'm saying, and that would be actually that first term over there, right? The expected value of demand during five days, all right? But then we said, Wait a second, that's not how the world works, right? So shows that you might actually have demand uncertainty. Might have some variability. So as a result of that, what might happen is, right? You place the order. But you know, over the next five days, you see a surge in demand, for instance, and because of that surge in demand, you run out early, right? That would be a stock up. We don't want that stock out to happen. So we said, Okay, we don't want that stock out to happen. It's clear that we need to kind of place the order even earlier, right, at a higher sort of level for R, okay, and so we're trying to figure out what is that level for r? We said, well, listen, we have a stock out if the demand during this, this period, this lead time, exceeds R, right? This is when we have a stock, ddlt greater than R. Equivalently, we have no stock out the ddlt is no bigger than our ddlt is less than equal, right, and we want the probability of no stock out to be 95% right? And I made up the number 95% it could be something else, right, but in this particular case, we want the probability of no stock out to be 95% okay, so we said, if we want probably of no stock out to be 95% that's equivalent to saying that we want it to be, that the demand during the lead time is no bigger than R 95% of the time. Let's just, let's just, let's just think about that statement, right? Make sure that we understand that statement, because it's a very simple statement. All they say is, listen, I can't guarantee, okay, because demand is uncertain, right? So I can't guarantee, right, that demand between when I place the order and when the order shows up, right? You know, exceeds, does not exceed the inventory I have on hand, right? Now, I can't come up with a guarantee, but at the very least, let me manage that risk, right? And so I'm saying, Listen, I want the chance that demand exceeds the amount of inventory I have in hand until the next order shows up, right? I want that thing to be no more than 5% the chance of that acting is smaller. And so that translates to this thing, right? We want that the probability of demand less than R is 95% and so as a result, this is what we want R to be the expected value of ddlt, you know, plus k sigma, ddlt, just like the newsflamder stuff, you did differently. Okay, all right, so just to kind of wrap so this is kind of what we've said, right? So if you sort of just think through this policy, this is literally the kind of policy that gets used in sophisticated systems, right? There's a few tweaks, but this is the first order. This is what it is, right? What's the game plan? The game plan is first, right? We figure out what this Q is, okay. Q is kind of, every time you place an order, we're going to order q that ought to opt to balance the sort of trade off between holding costs and ordering costs. And we figured out how to do that last time at the start of class, right in the chips, example, 1013 right? Okay, having done that, we've got to kind of figure out what r ought to be, right? When do I trigger an order for Q, right? Because if I wait too late, I'm gonna run into this lead time issue and I have a stop. So how do I treat when do I trigger an order? The recipe is super simple. You figure out what you want your service level to be, right? Let's say that that's this alpha over here. Let's say it's 95% and then, based on that, you set R according to this number. So it's kind of like the intuitive number, right? Let me plan and order exactly on time, which would be the expected value of ddlt plus a little bit of a button, right? That's what we're effectively doing. Okay, so just so we kind of wrap our heads around this, I'd like you guys to take three minutes with your with your friends, okay, to figure out what R is in this context. We've already calculated Q in this context. Let me just walk through this for you, right? It's the same PC problem as before, right? Except that demand is now uncertain, okay, it's got a mean of 400 and a standard deviation of 80, okay, so, as opposed to demand being 400 chips a week, the demand is, on average, 400 chips a week, but the standard deviation is 80, okay, and the second thing I'm telling you, right, the second thing I'm telling you is that you have a lead time of two weeks For your order to actually get to okay, everything else is the same. I want a service level of 95% I'd like you guys to figure out what r ought to be in this set. Okay, all right, spend three minutes off

Unknown Speaker  33:34  
before, yes,

Unknown Speaker  33:41  
yes, Yes, oh,

Unknown Speaker  34:11  
for Yes,

Unknown Speaker  34:31  
I think it's one For it's

Speaker 1  34:46  
1.6 Words, Yeah.

Speaker 7  36:00  
Today. Good question, good question. I had a meeting with Charlie yesterday and introduce your framework, and I sensitized with the diagram that I've been building with Charlie. May I share the mail with you and Charlie to get your absolutely thank you. Thank you. I like how you, um, designed the first two as more supply center and the third one as demand center. And he thought it was good. Yeah, yeah. All right, guys.

Speaker 1  36:42  
You Oh, okay, so I know, I know that this calculation a little bit tricky, but I wanted you guys to kind of just try it before, before we before we do, okay, so I'm gonna actually do all right, I'm gonna actually work out the calculation, but you've now actually thought about it for like, a few minutes, so hopefully it'll be, this will be a little bit to stay a little bit better. Okay, so let's, let's just, like, get all our guts in a row, right? Like, so really, all we got to figure out over here, like, what is R? And we know that r is the expected value of ddlt, right? Plus we want a service level of 95% so K, 95 sigma, ddlt, right. This is what we want, and this kind of guarantees that, like, basically, that the chance we stock out is 95% per all this calculation we were talking about earlier. Okay, so this is what we want. So what this means is that I just need to figure out two things, right? What is Edd, LT, and what is sigma? Ddlt, looks a little bit tricky. Okay, uh, why? Because, basically, the lead time over here is two weeks, right? So lead time is two weeks. So let's say I'm sitting here, right, and I'm thinking about demand next week, and I'm thinking about demand the week after that, right? So they're both random, right? Demand next week and the demand the week after that, they're both random, right? So let's call the demand for next week. Let's call that d1 Okay, and let's call the demand for the week after that, d2 Okay, so what is the distribution of d1 what kind of random variable is d1 it's normal. And what does it mean? What is its standard deviation? Okay, so this is normal with mean 400 standard deviation eight, right? And this guy is also normal with mean 400 standard deviation eight, right, in terms of d1 and d2 what is ddlt? It's d1 plus d2 right? Ddlt, demand over two weeks. That's going to be demand over next week, plus the demand over the week after that, right? So ddlt is really d1 plus d2 right? That's what, that's what. That's what ddlt actually is, right? So ddlt, okay, is simply d1 plus d2 in this context. Everybody good with this? Okay. So now, if ddlt is d1 plus d2 what is the expected value of ddlt? So that's going to be the expected value of d1 plus the expected value of d2 right? Everybody, everybody good with this. And what's that? What's expected value of d1 plus the expected value, that's 800 right? That's 400 plus 400 so we know that this quantity over here is 800 right? Why? Because this is going to be 400 plus 400 Everybody good with this, perfect. So now we've got to figure out sigma, ddlt, right? And what's sigma? Ddlt, sigma? Ddlt is basically sigma of d1, plus d2 right? This is a little bit trickier, right? It's non linear, a little bit a little bit tricky, right? So if I take, let's assume d1 and d2 are independent, okay, let's assume they're independent first, if d1 and d2 are independent, what's sigma of d1 plus d2 it's the square root of sigma, d1 squared plus d2 squared right, DND, it's the square root of the whole All right. All right, right. This is DMV, okay, so what is this guy? This is square root of sigma squared, p1 plus sigma squared. Okay, that's what this, right? And so what does that work out to? In this context, this works out to the square root of 80 squared plus 80 squared, right? What's that? That's simply square root times 80. Yeah. Okay, so we now know this quantity. This quantity is square root of two times 80. Okay. You could jog your memories again later. Okay, but Right. Like all we did is we said, what was the game plan? We said, ddlt is like, just the demand over next week and the week after d1 and b2 right? Once d1 is a random variable with mean 400 standard deviation. At p2 is a random variable with mean 400 standard deviation 80. So to add up those two random variables, the mean is 400 plus 400 800 right? If I look at the standard deviation, the standard deviation does not grow linear, right? The standard deviation grows like square root of the number. So the square root of two times eight, it's not two times eight, right? So when I add these things up, right, the standard deviation of the sum is larger, but it's not twice as large, right? Everybody, everybody, everybody, see this, right? Why? Because errors can, kind of can average out right. I might have an event next week, like a one day that's really busy next week, but maybe a week after, I have a day that's like, really not busy, and these things kind of cancel out, okay, plus, if DNP, right, and so we got that sigma, ddlt, square root of two times 80. You add all this up, right? Right? And let me, because I'm out of space over here, right? If I add all this up, I'm saying that R is 800 plus 1.644 right? For K, 95 times square root of two times 80, and that's 800 plus 186 if you plug that in, and that's 986 Okay, all right. So it's a bunch of calculations here. Let's, let's put that to the side. Okay, for now, you can always look at it. Let's, let's put that to the side. For now, okay, what I want to do is kind of step back and understand, like, what is the impact of doing what we've just done, right? So we did a bunch of calculations. Just put that on your mind for now, right? And let's just come back to what the policy is, right? Our policy is that we constantly track inventory, and as soon as inventory hits, you know, ddlt plus k sigma, ddlt, right? As soon as it hits that value, odd, I place an order. That's my new policy, right? Okay, now, when we did not have lead times and when we did not have variability, this was our worldview, right? This is how inventory was supposed to look over time, yes, but now we have lead times and we have uncertainty, right? So if we ran this system, okay, so let's say you ran this system, right, the inventory level is not going to look like this, right? It's going to look different. Okay, how do you make guesses for how it's going to look different? What do you think is going to be the qualitatively? What do you think? Yeah, I'm sorry. It used to be, why? Because

Unknown Speaker  44:13  
you're factoring at the initial quantity. Ah,

Speaker 1  44:14  
that's what he's calculated. That extra k sigma. Ddlt, okay, so here's something I did. Okay, so last night, I wrote a tiny piece of code to just simulate this, right? Like, picture is worth 1000 words, right? So, okay, you know, you set this up. Let's simulate this. Let's run this and see what the picture looks like. Okay, so if I simulate this system, right, that we've talked about for a period of two years, here's what this actually looks like. Okay, so here's the simulating exactly the system we just calculated over a period of two years, right? And remember, we place, every time we place an order, we are ordered like 1000 things, right? And as soon as inventory, you know, the inventory level gets 986, we place an order. Okay, so this is me actually running that system. What is the most notable thing about this picture? So, yeah, like, look at the dashed line, okay, and that dashed line I've drawn very deliberately, okay, so sometimes we do get below the dashed line, but we never ever hit zero, right? We never ever hit zero, right? So at some level, okay, we're caught this inventory we're constantly carrying, right? It never goes anywhere. So I have to kind of carry this inventory. Everybody see this? There's this like rectangle of inventory that's just always there, right? Okay, what do you think the height of that rectangle is? Yeah, it's just shy of 200 but what is it? Precisely? Any guesses? 186 okay, that rectangle over here, this rectangle over here, this guy is precisely k sigma, ddlt, okay, so let's just think about what we've done here. Okay, if we, when we started the discussion, right, we said, we worry about the buttermilk trade off, right? And we want, we did the buttermilk trade off. That was fun. Again. We did that pretty quickly yesterday. We're both in the past. But then we ran into sort of issue. These two imperfections, right, friction? Right? The frictions were, we have lead time and we have uncertainty, right? These were the two frictions that you brought up. These are the fundamental frictions in any supply chain, right? You have lead time because right physics and you have uncertainty. And as we discussed earlier, you can have all kinds of uncertainty, right, demand, uncertainty, supply, uncertainty, lead time, uncertainty, what have you right this? We have to be a price for some right? And we're seeing the price right there. Right? The price is at as soon as you throw this in, you're going to carry this like red layer of inventory, right? As soon as you throw in this friction. And let's look at how that friction plays out. Plays out right? What happens to the size of that red rectangle when lead time increases? Intuitively, what you expect to happen? You get bigger, right? And is it going to get bigger over here, given what we've actually written in terms of r, right? It is because sigma depends on lead time, right? In fact, you know, if lead time doubles, okay, let's say lead time doubles, right? How much do you think this, the size of this red thing will increase, right? So let's say my lead time double, right. How much extra red stuff Am I actually carrying? 1.4 Yeah, square root two, right. So lead time doubles, I'm going to carry square root two times more stuff, right? That because that's how sigma defined, right? This is that same square root two calculation that we just did a second, right? So as lead time goes up, my sigma goes up, and so I've got to carry more stuff, right? What happens is volatility increases. Let's say the volatility of a single week's demand. Let's say that increases. What happens? Then same thing, right? Let me go the other direction. What happens if Sigma was zero? What's the size of this red thing? Precisely zero, right? Why? It went back to the old story, right? So what we're seeing over here is just as before, right? There's a tax to pay in these systems, right? And the fundamental tax in this particular case, again, okay, just kind of cleaning this picture up, revolves around sigma and lead time. Okay, so again, volatility equals, let's call this. Do you have a name? Do you want to come up with a name for this inventory? What do we want to call this inventory, safety stock? Because that's exactly what this goddamn safety stock, right? And so, you know, we got the safety stock. This is ultimately the friction. This is ultimately the friction of doing business over there right now, seeing in this particular case as before, it depends on volatility, but it also depends on this new friction of lead time, right? The longer it takes for me to get something, the more of the safety stop I actually need to carry. Okay, so I want to actually pause this piece of the discussion here and switch gears and kind of, you know, talk about Gettier, but you know, the state of affairs where we've gotten to over here is going to this is kind of where we are, right? This is going to hold us in really good stead when we come back Monday and talk about Amazon and blockchain. Okay, so in particular, what have we done? Okay, if I were to take stock of everything we've kind of done this week, right? This week, we kind of up the ante, right? We basically talked about situations where it's no longer just service, I need to actually sell you a widget, right? And tell you, which is complicated, because I now get that widget from someone, I gotta hold out the widget. I've gotta pay for holding out the widget, this and that, whatever, right? And so we've kind of gone through this in two steps, right? The first step was, let's think about situations where we ordered just once. That's the new standard, right? Not actually very useful, because it got us to think about these trade offs, right? The trade off of having too much inventory before that too much a variety of different ways, or having too little inventory, and I've now missed the opportunity to sell something, right? That's what we talked about. And then yesterday, you know, we said, Well, what happens in businesses where you're continuously ordering inventory, right? I face repeated orders, you know, over time. In order to think about that, right, we did this in two steps. We talked about this EOQ model that was kind of straightforward, because, like, basically, it doesn't make sense to order a huge amount all at once, right? You want to trade off between kind of, the number of orders you place and the amount you're putting short. Then we said, listen, when you run these, these sorts of things in real supply chains, right? Real supply chains have friction. And if there's one thing we learned in the past is this, the sort of the story is all in that friction, right? And the frictions over here were uncertainty as usual and a new a new friction, which was lead time. Lead time and uncertainty came together. Basically required that in any of these supply chains, what we're going to need to do is carry safety stuff, right? And if you ever forget what that is, just come back to this picture, right? As soon as we sort of like, run this system, like you can actually see, right? Like simulated that for the most part, you have to kind of carry that safety stock. Yeah, on occasion, inventory might eat into that safety stock, because that's why it's there. But to a vast extent, right? That safety stock is just over there, like this red layer that you're constantly paying for and constantly can Okay, so this actually gives us really, really strong fundamentals to kind of talk intelligently about what I want to talk about Monday, but what I want to go into next for the last sort of 30 odd minutes of class is sort of a discussion on Getty O, because this will kind of help solidify some of The context from earlier mood, okay. Rachel,

Unknown Speaker  52:21  
yeah, that model.

Speaker 1  52:28  
This model is pertinent to settings where you carry inventory, right, where you have a widget services, you cannot inventory your service, right? This is relevant to businesses where you're carrying a window, you have a supply chain of some kind of friction, number of staff. So, yeah, so that's actually interesting. I think, like new standard digging is potentially useful over there. Michael,

Unknown Speaker  52:57  
go back to the other

Unknown Speaker  53:00  
the simulation. Yeah, we keep up with safety stock to

Speaker 8  53:04  
avoid basically losing money. And these are the little peaks. Yeah, those are the triangles. So, so the value

Speaker 9  53:15  
of these little triangles, yes, dollars should be bigger than the value of right? It doesn't happen. It's right? It doesn't have to

Speaker 1  53:23  
be right? Doesn't have to be because, if you sort of think about it, all of this kind of flows from this, flows from two different sources, right? So the triangles are trading off, basically holding cost and ordering cost, right? That's what the triangles on the top are trading off, right? The stuff triangles that are under the two the spikes that go the host, yeah. So what are those spikes doing? Those are, those are the spikes that basically are dense, where you had more demand than expected.

Speaker 8  53:52  
So the value of this, out of these spikes, like selling this, these good

Unknown Speaker  53:57  
value of the sum of these spikes needs

Speaker 1  53:59  
to be bigger 100% Absolutely. Absolutely. And that's kind of captured in our 95% right? So I want to be careful with talking about the value of the spikes versus the value of the rectangle, because here's what that 95% may come from a longer horizon kind of thought, right? So for instance, let's say you're managing like a single product, and that single product is actually purchased in a bundle by some important customer with something else, right? So looked at, just from the perspective of the product, you know, this may not have as much relevance, but looked at holistically, this might have a lot of relevance. So this comes faster, like, what's the, you know, what's the, what's the cost of losing a sale, right? So you want to calibrate this based on that, as opposed to anything else, and in this particular case, we just said 95% right? Good,

Speaker 6  54:50  
yeah. I also have a question about this, when thinking about seasonality, like holidays and situations where it speaks, that's all taken into account with the standard deviation

Speaker 1  55:01  
No, no, no. So when you have things like seasonality and so forth, you're slightly more complicated model than this, where you know, over a period, I'm assuming this is predictive, predictable, right? I know that difference is coming, yeah. So over those periods, the Q might change, the R might change, and then might come down back to kind of like a steady state, right? So I'm just kind of keeping it simple and saying, let's just imagine everything in steady

Speaker 6  55:24  
state. But the way you do it in real, real world is that you actually have, like, these calculations, again, for different periods. That's right. Okay,

Speaker 1  55:30  
that's absolutely correct. But not not. They don't change as often as you would think they would. And in fact, actually, the funny thing is, um, even pretty sophisticated players don't quite do this right. This is hard to do, right? You have to track and why? You have to track a lot of information to get this right? Yeah, right. I just told you the demand is whatever 400 with a standard deviation of a right. But in reality, this is a complicated thing to track. We have a stable Q, stable

Speaker 3  56:02  
R, R, and suddenly we have to use the safety stock. Do I need to change my queue for the subsequent ordering next to ordering?

Speaker 1  56:13  
No, well, you could think of a more sophisticated policy, but you would, you just sort of stick with this. You will lose sales, right? But as you can sort of see over here, over this period, we never lost it. Now, if we did this long enough, you probably would lose sales, right? Because, after all, the volume stock out is not zero, it's 5% All right, I'll take one or two more questions, and I want to switch gears. Derek,

Speaker 3  56:42  
no, spectral stock out five times based on four weeks?

Unknown Speaker  56:51  
Zero above the bottom

Speaker 1  56:52  
of that? Yeah, five times. It doesn't mean that would be zero, right? So if you look at the number of events over here, the number of events is way less than 100 No. So think about it as a reordering event, right? How many reordering events do we have way less than hundreds, probably 20 something

Speaker 10  57:18  
like that. So maybe during the course, at some point like we Sure,

Speaker 1  57:27  
sure, sure, we can discuss that. Okay? Everybody doing this? Alright? Again, as I said, we'll, we'll really kind of get into this sort of stuff, like when we talk about, like a real problem, right? So the therapy was sort of just setting the foundations. Okay, so the rest of the session, I want to talk about Daniel, right? You know, the case that I had to work on. Why did I have him work on? Daniel? It's not because the newspaper industry is a hot industry, terrible, one of the most challenging industries to be in at this point in time. Great. Anybody here from print media? No, it's a tough industry to be so why am I talking about yet I'm talking about Yeti o because, interestingly enough, the sorts of problems that they're dealing with are actually problems that are particularly relevant to modern retail Okay, so let me say more, right, if I sort of think about this Yeti oat story, right? The Yeti oak story focused on the last effort of the supply chain, okay, the last end of the supply chain. Again, this is often referred to as a distribution network, right? It's the very last layer of the supply chain, okay, and the yetiwo story was entirely about that very last layer, right? If you sort of think about, okay, now when it comes to that very last layer, sort of a whole bunch of questions we can ask, which we're going to try to dive into, right? Related to, how do we design that layer? How do we run that layer, so on and so forth. Why am I interested in I'm interested in this because, if we sort of think about modern retail, this last layer of changing very fast. Why is it changing very fast? Because the people that fit right, everybody wants to move faster. They expect things. They expect everything, and they expect everything fast, all right? And one thing we've seen over the last week is that that's going to be like a bitch to manage, right? Because if your customers want everything and they want everything fast, what does that mean in terms of the inventory of the ferry feels like impossible, right? And so that's kind of fundamental. So let me just say this again, because this is it's so simple to say, right? The problem is so simple. The problem is, if we think about the end customer and we think about how we're competing for that end customer dollars, we're competing on two dimensions. We're competing one on the dimension of choice, right, giving you exactly what you want, right? But that's not enough. I'm competing on choice and competing on time, right? I want to give you exactly what you want. I want to give it to you fast, right? Kind of funny, like in 2012 or something like that. Exactly 2012 December 2012 So December 2012 I was in the mobile camera, okay? And they're like a bunch of disease this, and that was an interesting animal, great. And this one guy on the panel with him, you know, was talking about this, and he was like, Yeah, I mean, you know, now we've got delivery in like, four days. Who would ever need that to be fast, right? Now, like, you look at that, that seems like, like, it's funny, right? It's really funny. But that's kind of like the human condition. We're like, like, really, each of us just, like, just greedy, right? If you give us x and we want x plus one, right? That's just the human condition. It's something you can always bet on, right? And so really, what that's led to is today, like, four days that's hilarious. Two days are equally hilarious, right? Like, we're talking about, like, hours, right? Like, like, the very least, like harmonics, like in the same day, or something like that, right? That's, that's what our expectations are. So I want lots of choice, and I want it really fast. What does that mean in terms of how I serve that right? Like, what does that mean in terms of running a supply chain? What does that mean in terms of, fact, sigma, DLT, nonsense, right? How much stock I care, you know, all this sort of stuff. And then you kind of make matters worse at first. So this is a very tough place to be, okay. And, funnily enough, right? Like yellow actually captures some important issues, okay, that arise in that last sort of part of supply chain. So at some level, this is almost like a clinical kind of study for the bigger problem. That's why I wanted you guys to look at okay, so let's start okay with just, kind of like making sure we're sort of all on the same page over here, right? And I'd like one of you to kind of just just give me a sense of what the old distribution model at the end of was just so that we're all level set, right? We're all so that we all know we're discussing the same thing. Okay, somebody helped me with what that old distribution model actually looked

Unknown Speaker  1:02:32  
like. Oh, thanks. Go ahead.

Unknown Speaker  1:02:34  
So the papers are distributed by the sales agent.

Speaker 1  1:02:37  
Okay, so we, so we print at the start of the week, right? Okay,

Speaker 3  1:02:46  
distributed to the sales agents, okay? And the sales agents will have their own few retailers, okay, distributes the papers, okay, at the beginning of the week, and at the mid of the week, the sales agent receives this residency we just see on the level of the stock.

Speaker 1  1:03:02  
Yeah. So each of these sales agents, at the start of the week will send them some quantity. Right at the end of the week, they're left with, like, a bunch of unsold stuff, which they actually take back, right? So, like, at the end of the week, maybe, you know, what they're taking back is q1, minus d1, you know, whatever was kind of left over, right? That's kind of what they're taking back

Unknown Speaker  1:03:27  
at sort of the end of the week. Okay,

Speaker 1  1:03:34  
good. The demand is uncertain, right? Demand is uncertain at each of these places. So you can sort of imagine that in each of these places, you know, there's some kind of demand, you know, different than each place, and it's uncertain. Everybody good with this. This picture very straightforward, right now, nothing particularly, nothing pretty complicated. Let me ask you sort of high level question, what are the challenges with innovating in a supply chain like this? Like this is a distribution network. It's the last it's the tail end of a supply chain, right? What are the challenges in this particular case with innovation? Why is innovation hard? What do you guys think, fundamentally is magazine and everything is not expensive

Speaker 10  1:04:22  
to not expensive to actually, because for the cost

Speaker 1  1:04:28  
of their tech, yeah, but it's a big publisher, so presumably they're not just doing one thing, right? There are tons of publications and so on and so forth. But you're right, like, at some level, maybe you know the technology is expensive, right? What is it? So let me, let me refine my question, right? You know, what are the, what are the technological challenges on you go ahead, like,

Unknown Speaker  1:04:53  
standardization,

Speaker 1  1:04:54  
yeah, so it's all Mom and Pop, exactly. So, I mean, these are the kinds of shops, right? So it's all like mom and pop and so as a result of this, there's kind of no standardization, okay, so that's one issue. I like that. What else? What are some of the other challenges? Yeah, okay, management of change. That just sounds like a bunch of words, right? Like, because, like, I could just, I could just, you know, I could say, Hey, do this, or else, I'm kidding, right? Like, I guess, I guess I agree with you, and I'm asking, like, Why? Why is this so hard?

Speaker 1  1:05:39  
Okay, okay, so, fine. So there's some generic inertia to doing to doing more work, folks, has anybody ever done this job? I have, right? Like, I've actually done this like, No, I've actually driven a pickup, like, and like, delivered, like stuff, not papers, but like, other stuff, like, to a bunch of these, like, Bodega type places, like, early in the morning first I did a good paper. It's an interesting job, and it's an irritating job, right? Because you have to wake up really early in the morning, typically, to do it, like you like, up by like, 430 and you're driving for, like, you know, whatever. It's exhausting. And so if you give me extra shit to do, I get, like, really irritated. So that's like one potential issue, just inertia to the top. So that could be one reason. But why would you get, especially a ton of push? I imagine you get a lot of push back later. You have all these sales guys doing this stuff right? Why would they push back on anything that kind of curtails, you know, the inventory they're putting into these stores.

Speaker 1  1:06:48  
Ah, okay, the compass tied to this, right? The Compass effectively tied to this. So basically, since the compass tied to this, you're telling them gonna give you less stuff to sell, definitely not going to be happy, right? So they don't bear the inventory risk you do. And so that's a challenge, right? Who else is actually going to complain about less inventory? The retailers themselves, right? So the retailers are going to complain about less inventory. You know, the people selling for you are going to complain about less inventory, right? So there's sort of like, incentive issues, right? So there's incentive issues, or incentive misalignment, right over here, where, because you don't own the whole channel, and this kind of happens all the time as well, right? So you don't have own the whole channel, but you're actually paying for, like, the inventory. And so as a result of this, because of this inventory, this incentive misalignment is a problem, right? The sales people, the mom and pops, they may not, they may not like this. Other things that you guys found is particularly challenging. Ah, yeah, so part of this kind of like being like a mom and pop thing, and part of the no standardization, there's also no like EDI type system over here, right? There's no like, like interface, like standardized interface to kind of have like electronic data share, right? So that doesn't exist either. Okay, that part doesn't actually exist, you know, for, for any of these guys, as as a given. So that makes this fun, okay? So, lots of challenges actually, right? So, a lot of challenges that come into kind of making this, you know, making this actually work. Okay, I have another question, actually, right? So, you know, when you guys thought about this stuff, right? You know, we read that like, basically, they want to actually carry enough inventory so that the service level is, like, pretty high, 90 99% right? 99% or something like that, right? Okay, well, let's just think about this 99% for a quick second, right? So, right? Like, like, let's say a man. Let's talk about a magazine for arguments, right? So let's say the magazine costs like $4 right? Magazine is actually expensive to print, okay, so, so best case, okay, maybe the magazine costs, you, like, I don't know, $3 to print, right? And you know, after you know, he wants to buy, you know, magazines from two years ago, or weekly magazine. So people's willingness to pay for, like, a full magazine, that's pretty low. So, so first order, it's useless, right? So if it's $4 when you sell the magazine, $3 to print it, right? That's the guess the service side. And let's say you get $0 it's out, right? That suggests a service level of like 1/4 right? That suggests a service level of 25% not a service level of 99% what's a service level 99 that feels like crazy high. Just

Speaker 4  1:10:00  
think about the other aspects of income, like the advertising money, like that off, it's gonna offset

Speaker 1  1:10:06  
this. Yeah, the big story over here is, actually, it's not about the magazine, right? The business runs off of like, advertising dollars, right? And so if I put my ad in there, I want to track how many eyeballs saw the ad. And so it's really about the eyeballs. It's not about this dollar, I mean, itself. It's about the many, many, many other dollars I make, you know, because of advertising, right? And so that's why, like, the service level is high, right? If we, if we, you know, if we, if we sort of get, if we sort of get into, oh, so one thing I've asked you guys to do, right, was to kind of think about, you know, in current state, right, with the with the sales guys going to each store and dumping magazines in each store, and so on and so forth. In current state, how would you think through, you know, how much inventory to carry, right? And so I'm curious about, like, what you guys did over here. So help me. Tell me what you guys did, yeah, experience, okay, do some news, kind of thinking, Okay, what was your exact like, sort of mechanism over here. How did you, how did you approach this, like, what did you do exactly you have, Mr. Value. You have historical data, right? So you had some historical data that looked, you know, maybe something like this, right? So this was, like, your historical data, okay, good. What do you do with this historical data? We need to, like, we need to

Speaker 5  1:11:38  
supply them at 90% percent, 99 or whatever.

Speaker 1  1:11:45  
So what you're saying is, you looked at this retailer by retailer. You looked at this historical data. Looking at the historical data, maybe you could compute a mean and a standard deviation, right? That's one way of doing. So maybe you computed a for this guy. Maybe you computed mu one and sigma one, right? And then you said, Well, how much inventory do I carry? I carry, you know, mu one plus K 99 which is two point something, whatever, sigma one. And that was, that's the recipe, very good. I like any shortcomings with this recipe? Any shortcomings with this recipe, right? Hope, by the way, if you did this, great, okay, but I'm just, I'm just sort of asking here, just a pro, right? What are the, what are some of the shortcomings with this recipe? If there are, uh, Andres, you make a lot of magazines,

Unknown Speaker  1:12:40  
and you get a lot of fruit. Returns.

Speaker 1  1:12:45  
Oh, I mean, that's not a problem with the recipe itself, right? That's just your kind of that just life and there's like, uncertainty, and I need to maintain, like, a really high service rate. That's a problem we want to address, right? But if we're dealing with things, if this is how we're going to do things that's just exactly how it's going to be, right? I have the uncertainty. I have, you know, the high service level, there is going to be a lot of waste, right, which we don't like, we want to talk about. But for now that we have to do Carlos, we had the sensor demand. We were assuming that the sales are okay, good, good, very good, right? So if I look at this, this is not demand, this is sales, right? And in this particular case, this is not so much of a problem, right? Why is it not so much of a problem with getting that password, because we have the

Unknown Speaker  1:13:45  
additional information about

Unknown Speaker  1:13:48  
the days that were like, like, a lost sale, a potential

Speaker 1  1:13:51  
Sure. So you can, you can uncensor carefully. But what I'm saying is, like, even if you, like, just forgot about this point. So you just say, hey, demand and sales are basically the same thing. I'm saying that that's not so bad in this particular case. And my question is, why on Sunday, you spoke

Speaker 1  1:14:21  
Super 99% Okay, give me a situation where this is a big problem outside of getting

Unknown Speaker  1:14:36  
so Think about the following. Okay, imagine that you've never carried.

Unknown Speaker  1:14:44  
Let me make some appropriate so,

Speaker 1  1:14:50  
you know, let's talk about my beautiful shirt. So, so let's say, right? Like, you know, people have decided in Cambridge that the shirt is ugly, and we did never carry the shirt again, right? But look at my historical data. Look at my historical data telling me about the shirt, it tells me nothing, right? And so I have this kind of self fulfilling prophecy, right? Where, like, I assume that this thing sucks, and as a result, I never carried it, or I barely carried it. And the result I got, there basically no signal about how amazing the shirt, right? So actually built discoveries. This kind of happens all the time, right? So imagine a world right, where you can, when you can, where you can carry hundreds of millions of products, literally, right? Like, Amazon carries $300 million products, right? But they can't make all the products accessible to you, like, like on the same day, or whatever it is, right? It can only make a tiny fraction accessible to you at some level. But think about all of the other stuff outside of that traction that can make you accessible, right? To the extent that that's not accessible to you, you don't buy it. If I just rely on sales information, I might get into the self fulfilling prophecy, right? Of effectively saying, Listen, what I'm offering to these guys is the right thing, whereas, in reality, there's something outside that you should be offering that you don't learn. So there's this hard problem of non censoring, which is beyond the scope of what they're discussing. It's actually really, really important. And actually it's really, really important in the context of sort of this Amazon type story that we're going towards, right? Because in that world, as I said, you can only ever make a tiny fraction of this massive assortment available to somebody, you know, in two hours, or, like, in a day, or whatever it is, right? Why? Because you're fundamentally constrained by the inventory and carrying close to that person. Okay, so this sounds interesting, is a big problem, you know, just keep it at the back of our minds here, right? But over here, not such a big deal, right? Why? Because, you know, as maybe as next, somebody said, I can't remember who said, right? The service level is so high, sure, right? The service level is so high that, like, doesn't really matter. Okay, we typically are going to sort of see everything, okay. So one recipe to do this was, you calculate the mean, calculate the standard deviation, you do your like news vendor nonsense, right? And you can do it player by player or retailer by retailer, and you figure out how much I sent to that feature. Okay? Finally, an alternative to doing, you know? And so this is what I thought. By the way, got a different number. That's fine, right? Because you might have calculated mu and sigma in slightly different ways for me, right? But roughly, you know, this is kind of what I got. You know when I you know when I did, when I did this. Okay, now, another way of calculating this, by the way, hold on, right? Another way of calculating this, by the way, is not assuming things are normal, right? So here I assume things are normally distributed. I don't necessarily need to do this right. A different way of kind of thinking about it is to say, Well, I actually have the distribution, right. I have the actual distribution, right? This is the histogram. And so if I look at retailer one, this is kind of a histogram of sales, right, right? They have, you know, you know, they have one week where they sold, I they, you know, I guess, zero units. They have, what is this? Three weeks where they sold one? They have two weeks where they sold two, and so on and so forth. And you can kind of normalize that to like, 100% and get, like, a nice little distribution, right? So you can get a distribution just directly from the data, if you like, and this will give you a slightly different answer. Okay, if you calculate it this way, you get a different answer. But ultimately, you're doing the same thing you're saying. Where does quantity need to be so that, so that I've covered 99% of this distribution, right? And this particular case would probably be somewhere there. Okay, so now the question is, right, like the second thing we asked about was, what if we actually pooled all our stuff together, right? So what if we kind of pooled all our demand together, right? That was the second thing that we kind of talked about over here, right? So what did you guys do then, how did you think about pool demand, right? How would, how would the first, you know, how would we, how would we change what we were just talking about with pool demand, yeah,

Unknown Speaker  1:19:12  
yeah, okay.

Speaker 1  1:19:18  
So, good, good. So let me put this on the board, right? So basically, we're saying, listen, okay, let's say, you know, I've got 50 retailers, right? And for these 50 retailers, they have means and standard deviations, right? So the means that say I can kind of mu one, mu two, mu three, all the way to mu 50, and each of these guys has standard deviations, sigma, one, sigma, two, sigma, three, all the way to sigma 50, right? Okay, so with this now super retailer, as we called it, what's the mean demand at that super retail? It's just the sum, right? So the super retailer, let's call that mu super right? That's mu one plus mu two plus mu three. What about the standard

Speaker 5  1:20:11  
deviation? So we cannot add them directly, good. We'll have to find the four axes. So it's sigma squared, yeah, the sum of a square.

Speaker 1  1:20:22  
Yeah. Where? So it's something like this. Yeah, everybody good with this, right? Okay, now, if you did this, let's first look at what would happen if you did this, right? Presumably, what you found is, when you did this, you had to carry far less safety sum, right? That's probably what you found, right? In my particular case, again, okay, if your number is different, right, I can carry much less safety stock if I did this, 234, units, as opposed to in whatever, 419, units, right? So way less safety stock, right? Why is that happening? Like, why is that happening? What? Like, well, what's the, what's the magic of what's going on? Yeah, yeah. So

Unknown Speaker  1:21:06  
fundamentally, what's

Speaker 1  1:21:09  
going on is that, like, you know, maybe you know your demand was high, but maybe Alexander's demand, just by luck, happened to be low, and these things tend to cancel out, right? One way of sort of thinking about this guys, right? It's very simple, right? Like, let's imagine all these mus were identical and all these sigmas were identical, right? So let's say all the mus are identical, all the sigmas were identical, right? If that were the case, right? Mu, super would be 15 times. New, right? 50 retailers Times New, and sigma super would be square root of 50 times sigma, right? Everybody see this? Okay, more generally, okay, let's imagine you looked at the coefficient of variation of demand, right? So if I looked at the coefficient of variation of demand, that's sigma divided by me, right? But if I aggregated 50 retailers, what's my coefficient of variation of demand? Right? Let's look at this. It would be sigma super divided by mu super, which is square root 50 times sigma divide by 50 times mu. That's one over square root of 50 times Sigma over mu, right. Okay. What is that saying? That's saying that, basically, if I kind of look at this aggregated quantity, the aggregated quantity is actually much easier to predict, right? Than a set than each of the separated out quantity, and the more you aggregate. So over here, you know we have 50 retailers. More generally, if you have n retailers, this would be one over square root of n, times the coefficient of variation on a single dot, right? And so in very simple terms, what we're saying is, when we aggregate things out, things are much easier to print, right? And as a result, you know, we got that, we carry much less safety style, right? You probably got, okay, I'd also ask to do one other thing, which was basically, you know, aggregate, not everybody together, but aggregate like, you know, like in little pieces, right? Like, right, aggregate by agents or something like that, right? And it was there. You should have gotten a number somewhere in between, but you have gotten, like, the lion's share of the wins, right? My hope is you'd have kind of gotten the lion's share of the wins just by doing that. Okay, now here's the thing, and this is kind of where I want to kind of pick up our discussion on Monday, right? What we conclude in doing this, right, this relevant day distribution network, right, is that if somehow or the other, right, I didn't have to actually carry inventory at, like, I don't know 50 different locations, but just one location, I'd be weird. That's kind of what you conclude, right? My question is, and this is what I want to pick up on on Monday, how do we make this practical, right? Because this is like crazy, right? Like, I can't teleport inventory right from one place to the other. That's a little bit hard to do. So what I'd like to pick up on Monday is first, like, back at Daniel, how will we make something like video tracking, right? We'll spend maybe 1520 minutes talking about that, right? That will, like, set us up really nicely for kind of launching into kind of the big problems. Okay, now what if we're running this fat scale for Amazon? Okay, what happens there? Right? Amazon's a more interesting business than yellow. Okay, so what happens if that's here would be less Okay, so that's what we'll Do next week. Have a great

Speaker 7  1:25:02  
weekend, guys. Thanks. I already seen your mail. Yeah. And did you read the announcement for the problem, like the practice problem? I think it was in the announcements that we shared the practice problem, and the final exam will be very close to that, at least we are designed. Yeah, let me know if you have any other questions. Hi, oh, yeah, thanks for writing my name. Did you raise your hand today? And don't worry, I raised my hand, but I asked you, oh, okay, okay. Could you send me your mail just quick? Yeah, you don't even have to put the subject. Put the subject, 15778, okay, so I just put the first Yeah. Yeah. Thanks. Christina, Hi, Michael.

Speaker 7  1:26:12  
Sure, is there anything I can help? Is this class being recorded? You know? Yeah, no, what's the class? For sure. Oh, this class is being recorded, right? I did, I wasn't

Unknown Speaker  1:26:25  
aware. Oh, yeah, good for

Unknown Speaker  1:26:28  
you. Got it. Got it perfect today. I think we should be happy about that, right?

Speaker 2  1:26:38  
Hi, question one, remember how one remember about sell through and consider we didn't do that like ignorance. We what we did was we didn't assume that it's

Unknown Speaker  1:27:01  
okay. Your name. Is that assumption?

Speaker 2  1:27:06  
I still get some points right, because I know that cell too we have to consider. But the right method is to reduce those cells and then extrapolate. Yeah,

Speaker 7  1:27:18  
I should get some advice from Adam, because he's more experienced PA, but I at least for now, I think

Speaker 2  1:27:24  
we mentioned, yeah, I know we consider that.

Angie.H Moon  1:27:30  
I'm debating over two metric system, where one is like distributional across different student groups. So if there are teams that really thought deeply about sell through. I don't know whether I should, like give them a plus point bonus point or just re skill them according to that. Okay, so you might want me to give the bonus point for those who thought deeply, because there are, I think, at least three teams who came to the office hour and was like, yesterday, right? Yeah, yes, it's okay. Don't worry too much about it. Yeah, I'll so

Speaker 2  1:28:07  
the idea is to, let's say there's 10 celtrose for one week. We just cut down the 10 and then blow it up. I.

Transcribed by https://otter.ai
