Get into the Amazon discussion today and tomorrow. But what I'm trying to do is kind of not use all of the time. The reason is I wanted to try, if possible, it's not possible. I want to try and expand the amount of time I spend on like the Jenny ice, right? Like, so I have a lot of content for that, as you can imagine, and sort of like a subset of that content that I think you know, might be useful to kind of get through to all of you, just because it kind of, I think it sets you up in a good way to kind of get to sort of, this is what generative AI is about. This is what your generative AI is about. This is how it's built. This is how it's used, right? It's any kind of dangerous enough, so to speak, so that you can think about that stuff, that stuff rigorous. Okay, so, so we'll see how that goes. We'll have to, we'll have to be dynamic, but ostensibly, we have two days, perhaps, okay, the other thing I wanted to sort of talk about is this week. So this week you don't have a case due, right? Like, so the first two weeks you had a case due Friday, this week, there's no case, right? Instead, what you're gonna be working on is this simulation, okay, little field. So this is sort of like you're gonna be running factory effectively. And kind of kind of combine thinking about service businesses, which you thought about in the first week of the class, you know, inventory issues, which we thought about in this, you know, in this, in this preceding week, kind of hopefully get you to put those thoughts together, and also hopefully get you guys to kind of like, really work together. So, you know, I kind of do this thing every year, and it's, it's really a blast, certainly for me, kidding, no, it's actually something where, like when people talk about the class, it is something they actually remember, okay, and so, you know, at a high level, the way I want you guys to sort of approach this is so first of all, there'll be, you know, kind of a recitation and so on and so forth. That'll help you think through, you know, what, what the simulation is even about, right? And then the simulation will kick off, you know, Wednesday morning, just to kind of make things easy, you know, we'll do sort of an optional kind of thing where you guys can show up and we can kick off, you know, together. You don't have to be your word if you don't want to, but that'll sort of help with, like, you know, any any issues with kind of getting the thing up and running, questions, this and that. So we'll kind of make ourselves available at the time to kick off. We'll all kind of kick off together and then run for for about two days, okay? So 48 hours, right? Now, what that means is that it's also running while you're sleeping, right? And what that means is, again, two options, one that you don't sleep, which is crazy, strongly recommend against, and the other is actually you have, like, a proactive plan for this whole thing, right? And, you know, while it's actually running, there's not a whole bunch of work to do, right? But, you know, the work is, like a priority, like before, before it hits on, okay? So that's kind of the work, you know, the work for today, and then, like, sort of just like peeking into next week. Okay? Because this will be a pretty fast follow, actually, so you should be thinking about it now, right? Is sort of a pitch, okay? So one of the things that's you is a pitch, or like a venture. That's the sort of venture pitch. You look surprised. Sure, you're not surprised. But I started to use this pitch about five, five years ago, I think. And the reason I introduced it was one things I realized was, like a lot of you, even if you don't want to kind of get into sort of entrepreneurial stuff, right? Typically end up exercising sort of this entrepreneurial muscle while you're at MIT, right? And my sort of view with this is, with any sort of entrepreneurship is really the big thing is to just get started. Okay? It's just to get started. Otherwise, you'd like to sit there and like, you know, there's like a little bit of like analysis paralysis, right? To use a well sort of trodden person. And so the goal with the pitch is to kind of just get going, okay? And the one thing I will say is, you know, this has actually been a pretty cool thing. So over the years, increasingly, now, every year, there's one or two, or even three of these pitches that actually become a thing, and, you know, the people follow through. So from last year's class, if I'm tracking correctly, at least two of the pitches are actually companies, right? It's like, people that are actually like, they're like, hey, I really like this. I want to do it. Okay, yeah, it's not only all of them, right, like, obviously, but the idea with this is to just kind of get the juices flowing and to actually just, like, do something right now, with respect to the pitch, there's a lot of like info in the syllabus around this, some pointers and so on and so forth. You know, does it have to be about like operations? You know, no, right? But the hope is that was, you know, what you've seen in the last couple of weeks does spark a few ideas, right? And I think the ground is pretty fertile, especially this year, right? The ground is especially fertile because there's all these processes, okay, you know, and services and operations and whatever, where one can completely potentially reimagine these processes thanks to things like generative AI, okay, and so I think, I think the grounds pretty fertile. I hope, you know, I hope you guys have have fun doing these things. So that's kind of you into, you know, this week and and next week. Okay, yeah,

yeah. Invest. Or more? Oh,

got it. Got it. So the way it's going to work is as follows, to answer your question immediately, two guys, right, right, but the way it's going to work in the follow. So what we're gonna do is we have this sort of thing set up where you will turn in kind of a one slide version of your pitch as well as kind of a pitch itself. The one slide version will get distributed among your amongst your peers, and we'll kind of have, like, we'll get sort of a sense of a popular vote, right? And we'll sort of allocate this thing carefully so there's no context, and so forth. And then what we'll do is, I will also go through all of these. Oftentimes I get the help of like friends of mine right to kind of take a look, and I'll come up with our own sort of ranked list. And then basically what we do is we think, by combining this to this, we take five or six of these. It was fine, 6% of the last. That's

the process. Yeah,

that's what I said earlier. Several Yeah. So, like, every year now it's become, like, there's like, about two of them become, like, real companies, which is crazy, right? Like, it just goes to show that, like, just gotta get started, right? It's like, great ideas, if you just get, you know, you just get started, and you kind of put

your mind,

but that's not the purpose, to be clear. The purpose is not that kind of the idea, and you can build a company as well, as well. The purpose, my purpose, is very humble. It's just so you get the following, nothing. Okay, all right, good. So, let's get started with the any other questions, by the way, before I get before I get drunk?

Yeah, do you expect to see

the operation, management content be applied to?

I just spoke to that, right? Like, so, no, that's not, that's not required. But what I said, as I said a second ago, is, you know, the ground is pretty fertile with respect to a lot of the concepts that we've talked about. So there's no shortage of ideas in that direction. Other Other questions before we get going, Joe, how is

this pitch evaluated? I know from the view of an investor, but

yeah, what are the criteria for evaluation?

Okay, so that's all in the syllabus, and it's written down pretty carefully in the syllabus, but I'll sort of, I'll sort of say it in brief, right? So the syllabus gives you, if you can't write it, Syllabus gives you a short sense of what's expected in the pitch, like the bare context of the pitch, so to speak, right? And beyond that, you know it needs to be an idea that sometimes it sparks the enthusiasm of your peers and mindfulness, right? And the way I sort of look at it again, is discussed in discussing, all right? So it's not about kind of like winning, rather, it's about like, kind of getting a sense of the form of what's

needed. Alright, good. Now we can talk more about this. Okay, that's what I think. Then also, like, if you want to, like, talk with me, you know, reach out and talk with me. A bunch of you actually have, and I've been meeting with a bunch of you, which has been really fun. Okay, so now we got rolling over here, right? And this is kind of where we left off on this is a summary, by the way, of where we left off on on Friday. Okay, I'm going to sort of ignore this. This, this thing. Let's just look at this, right? Um, what is this over here? This is basically saying, how much inventory would you need to carry at Getty oat in three separate circumstances. Okay, the first line was basically business as usual, right? Like every, you know, every one of those sales guys takes inventory, dumps it at, you know, the retailer, and brings the stuff back, right? So, business as usual. The second was a rather the third, let's go with the third, the third line, which has pooled, all right? This was basically, you imagine that, you know, all of your retailers became this one kind of super retailer, so to speak, right? And you only carry inventory at that super retail, right? And we found that we needed to carry less inventory, almost half, actually, the amount of inventory, right? Can somebody explain to me, just so that we jot our memories, why that ended up happening? Why did we end up going from 419, to 234, because of balancing.

Okay, okay. So you say, well, listen, because we sort of think about the whole story, right? The whole story was always, you know, you're carrying at any one of these guys, you know, mu plus k sigma, right? This is, this is kind of what we were carrying. And so like, you know, retailer one, you might carry mu one plus k sigma, one. At retailer two, you might carry mu two plus k sigma, two, right? And so forth, up to mu 50 plus k sigma, 50 right. And let's just imagine for a quick second that all these Mu's and sigmas were identical, right? So, mu one, mu two, Mu 50, let's say that's 10, right? And let's say you know, sigma, one, sigma, two, sigma, 50, that's also 10, right? We sort of ask ourselves, well, if that's the case, that's kind of like, you know this, this quantity over here is the sum of these quantities, right? Now we ask ourselves, well, what happens if you pool everything? Well, if you pool everything, right? What does this thing become? Well, this thing becomes essentially k times square root, sigma, one squared plus sigma, two squared plus sigma, 50 squared right? That's the standard deviation of of all of those retailers club together, right? That's, that's, that's basically what you get. And so in my example, where I said, you know, let's imagine sigma is, imagine, you know. Imagine you know, mu is mu one equals mu two, you know, equals all of them equal 10. Imagine sigma one equals sigma two. All of them equal 10, right? In the old situation, you'd be carrying, you know, k times 10 times 50 of safety stock. Does that make sense for the old setup? Right? Because there's sigma is 10 for each there's 50 of these guys. We're adding up all that safety stock. So it's k times 500 on the other hand, if you were doing this thing with everything pulled together, you know, what would this be? This would be k times square root of 50 times 10 squared right? And what's that? So, that's going to be k times square root, 50 times 10, right? And what's, you know, what's, what's square root 50, that's about seven, right? So over here, you're carrying k times, let's say about k times 70, right? So there's a massive reduction in the amount of safety stock you carry, right? We can sort of see that off of a very quick calculation that I just did. Right? Basically, what I'm saying is, hey, you know, if I combined all of these errors together, right? You know, you might have more more demand here, but that might cancel out with less demand somewhere else. Everybody okay, with this sort of idea, it is really, really simple, but if you kind of take two sources of demand, you put them together, one source might have high, you know, might have a positive shock. That might cancel with a negative shock from another from another spot. And so as a result, right? If I sort of think about how predictable demand becomes, it becomes more predictive. Does this make sense? Does this rough idea make sense? Over here questions about

this sounds a little bit like constructing a diversified portfolio

of assets correlations. So

you could put in correlations, right? If they're positive, your gain won't be as large, right? And that's to be expected, right? Like, if there's like, some common shock, right, that impacts everybody, then everybody buys more, right? So correlations might reduce. Positive correlations might reduce the gain you get from this. Similarly negative correlations will improve the game you get, okay? And so that's exactly the right way of looking at this, right? This is sort of like a portfolio effect. Oh, 100% okay. Everybody good with this, right? All right. The next thing was that, basically, hey, you know, I also asked you guys to kind of pool by sales agent, and what you found when you did this was that you got kind of most of the gains of pooling, right? So the pooling games weren't as great, but you got most of them. Okay, so the second idea, so the first idea was, hey, if I put together a whole bunch of risk, right, these risks have to average out, and that's good. It means that we carry less of this sort of safety stock, right? The second idea was, do you have to pull together lots of different sources of risk to kind of, you know, average things up? And the answer was, No, not really, right. If we pulled together demands with just a small number of retailers. We got most of the game, and that was okay, all right. So this is kind of where we were Friday. And you know, the issue is that this is all nice conceptually, but, like, what does this mean practically, right? So I can't actually build a single retailer, right? That's like a nonsensical thing. There are at the end of the day, after all individual retailers, right? So, how do we, you know, how do we even do this? How do you even do the middle line, right? It's not clear. Like, I can't teleport between, like, a small number of of these retailers, right? Like, so demand is not really cool. So at some level, this was just conceptual. The question is, how would you make something like this real? So that's a question to all people, right? So this is great. These are the gains that you get. But how would you go about realizing these games, like, can we even hope to realize these things? How might we do that?

Dimitri, I would create a smaller, if we're speaking about, for instance, full service agents, I will create smaller inventory hops closer to the locations that are there in distribution. And this will give you look like so from the big hub of the CTO, they will transfer the major stock to this one. Will set the safety stock at each particular location, and I will replenish the stock basing on the demand situations

I see. So walk me through the work needed to do this. Like, what are the investments that you need

to do? I need just some sort of dark store with the salt of newspapers, magazines, just basing on the multituations

of these particular so why do you need kind of invest in these storage areas? It

can be a van. It doesn't matter. They've got some vans. So you can take the van off the idiot and put it somewhere. I mean, like, you might not like putting the stock inside of the outlet. Tell them so not to get the stock out

of the outlet. And how would you think about this distribution approach? Like, you look at the inventory every day, like, how would

you I mean, yeah, for sure, you will need to get some information from the ops. You will need to collect the information in order to get the signals, so called

alerts. So I think that that gets to, you know, I see how that, you know, tries to capture this, right? Basically, what you're saying is, you're effectively going, if I think about what's good about your idea, right? What's good about your ideas? What you're saying is, I'm going to kind of track what demands looking like, right? I'm going to kind of fill inventory based on what that demand is looking like. So if it looks like, you know, let's say, you know, it's between shot and Gary, right? And oh, it looks like show testing. A little more demand this week. I'll put a little bit more inventory there, a little less to Gary, and Gary starts to exceed more I might. So that's good, right? That maybe tries to get to kind of the bottom of this. So I'm kind of putting an inventory where it's needed. Uh, what's bad about changes? Yeah, what are the downsides

I might face the risk of not facing the demand, like situations in the upper side, for example, on their side, because I will, I mean, like that, speed of reaction of replenishing the stock really depends on the amount.

So what if you're kind of behind basically, what if you get Gary too little? Okay, what about the investments needed

for your idea, of course.

So there's a lot of setup needed, other ideas, yeah, all.

So basically, so I like what that is you're saying. Put the forecasting, so to speak, in the hands of the retailer we said earlier, retailers don't care about right? You cannot carry any inventory. My point is that, like right now, they have no downside, so they're they're hard to get those types of books right. I see what you're right. Like this idea of a market for access inventory, I think that's a nice idea, and that might have merit in other situations, because that's a good

thought. Other ideas, Alexis, maybe we need to work with incentives, or try to connect with them, or give them some money, if they save money.

I see, I see you say, basically, pass on some of the games to the sales agent. That's fine. But like, and I like that idea. The thing is that, like, if I sort of think about what we did on line one, how would we ever do better than line one? So let's, let's say I went with your idea, right? Let's see which is like, I try to fix the incentives for the sales agent. I think, no, this is kind of what I'm going to say. I'm going to pass on some of the savings. That's a great idea. But my question is, let's say I was a sales agent and you gave me these incentives, right? How? What would I do? I need to

give you opportunity to come somewhere or meet with dark stock, or in my main place where.

So I like, where this is going to, you know, involve the sales agent, some right. Involve the sales agent stuff. Let me ask you guys this, what's a way of, kind of getting here? What are thoughts on getting here with sort of minimal, sort of extra work for the sales agent? So the one thing I didn't like about the mentors, I care, it's a huge amount of extra work, right? And you know, just not the juice may just not be worth the squeeze. So I guess the question is, how do I kind of get this value without a huge amount of extra work?

I think what? Because, I guess it's Israel is quite small. And I think that if I think asking their agent to go to at each store, I mean once or maybe twice a week, carrying their inventory, and then can lock it and give it to them as if they see that. That's for sure. If they need more, and if they have a lot more sold, they can take some away as well. So that will be giving like their less production overall

good. So let's take a little bit in this direction, right? So currently, the sales agents make two trips, right? They make a trip at the start of the week and they make a mid week trip, right? So let's say the constraint is they're not going to make more trips than that, right? So let's say you can't ask the sales agent to make more trips than they're already making. That makes it kind of hard for you, because to be clear. What that means is, I can't transfer inventory, but they can carry with them, right when they can potentially

carry stuff that is the rich for I mean, their cheap version is getting a van, having all their magazines from that weekly basis, and see where they can order if they need more, you can put an event, give it to them. If they don't need they can pick it up.

Okay, okay, so I see what this is. So maybe what you guys are saying is the following, right? If I just clean, clean this up. So what you're saying is, look, the sales agent is never going to make more trips, right? Makes a trip on Sunday and makes a trip on, you know, whenever, like, right? There's, there's two trips. So what your idea is is, basically, at the start of the week, you're going to give the person some inventory, and then in the middle of the week you're going to give them some inventory, not going to take inventory away, because there's you're not, you can't, you don't have the room to make extra trips, right? So only like, one trip, like, I don't have like, like, ever discovered that showdown has too much inventory. It's too much work for me to kind of take showdowns inventory and then give it to Gary and this and this, and that's just how to do it. It's not part of my job, right? But part of my job is making at least two trips. And so you know, the first trip you're saying, I'll give Shota something, and second trip, I'll give Shota something. That's the idea, right? Okay, so the framework right now is very simple tweak, right? We've kind of really pared down this dark store thing. In fact, you don't even need a dark store for this, right? Because the man started the hub, right? And so there's no investment here, right? It's the same thing as before, and the idea that these guys have put together is basically, at the start of the week, if I'm a driver, you're going to give me a bunch of stuff, right? A bunch of papers like before. I'm going to give those papers to, you know, Shota and Gary and Shiva and others, right? And then at some point later in the week, you know, I need another trip. But as opposed to, like, doing nothing, I'm actually going to give each of them some more inventory potential. Yes, that's the that's the flow, that's the framework. If that's the framework, help me understand how that you know, how you actually run that framework? So in particular, you know, first, let me ask you this, when would you want that second trip to be? Let's start then, the middle of the week. Well, why the middle of the week? Where did you when you come up with the middle of the week size

of I see

what are the trade offs would be early versus late? Like, how are we thinking about the trade off? I understand what you said. I'm trying to figure out, like, the right time, right like, what you're kind of trading off versus

great. So you're like, Daniel is saying, right? Let's imagine for a quick second, right? So let's say the week runs, you know, Sunday through Saturday, right? And let's say my replenishment is kind of like end of the day Saturday, right? So I have certainty of what demand is going to be, but that's kind of useless, right? Because it's too late. Can't do anything with that, right? On the other hand, let's say it was the other extreme. Well, I've given Sunday, and then I came in like Monday, right? Well, great, but like you see, just one day of information you don't really know. You know that's still a ton of uncertainty left. So Daniela saying is, Listen, what we'd like to do, maybe, okay. What we'd like to do, okay, is, perhaps. So here's the setup, right? So this is Sunday, yeah, this is Saturday, right? What we'd like to do is perhaps, on some day here to be determined, right? You're going to look at like the demand that you saw over here, and you're going to use this to kind of get a better sense right, of what total demand is going to be, right? Because we've seen a peak of demand, you know, we've seen a sniff at what demand looks like for the week. If we took this too far to the right, there wouldn't be much point in actually replenishing if we did too far to the left, you wouldn't have much signal, right? And so you're saying you don't pick it somewhere in the middle, right? By the way, should this be the middle of the week in time? Or should there be a different way of thinking about this? Maybe? Alexander, I it came up.

How much does it

take for me? But there's no lead time here, right? Like, I'm in that band, and I just go from the depot to this place. There's no lead time. So all I'm sort of asking is, right? Like, if I kind of think about this balance, is it a balance in time? Like, like it should be on a Wednesday. Or do we want to think about a balance in a slightly different way, honor, right? Like, it's in terms of demand. So at some point, in some sense, I want this like point to be the point at which typically, half of the demand of that week has gone possible, right? So for instance, let's say most of your demand, you know, comes in on a Thursday, right? Like, then you might want to delay it a little, because, like, maybe the start of the week is very slow. On the other hand, maybe the start of the week's really fast, right? And in that case, maybe the replenishment happens Tuesday evening or Wednesday morning, something like, I'm making this up, so we can kind of figure this out, this trade off out based on what the mill is saying, okay, which is, hey, maybe a trade off between learning about what demand is going to be right, in a sense, like, almost like a crystal ball, right? Let me get a peek at what demand is going to be better than doing nothing right and kind of not being too late. Okay, so I like that trade off. Now, let me ask you another question. So, so, okay, let's, let's think about it, right? So if I'm standing here at this point in time, right, I've got demand, and my view of demand is kind of like this, right? And the idea is that, by the way, when you're here, your view of demand, like kind of gets refined. Maybe it's something like that. That's basically the game we're saying. Right? Everybody clear with this? Great. So here's my question, the first trip that you make on Sunday, right? Like when you walk in on Sunday, right? How do you want to think about that first tranche of inventory that you give to Gary or show time. So just to be concrete, let's say, let's say, let me just be concrete with this. Let's say that I figured out that I'm going to come in Wednesday. Okay, so I come inside, I come in like Sunday early morning. That first batch I deliver you right Sunday, Monday, Tuesday. Nobody shows up, right? Imagine there's demand, obviously, but I don't show up, and then I come in again, with more inventory, less enough supply. My question is, when I'm sitting there, how much inventory should I give you Sunday? How should I think about that initial thing of inventory that I'm giving you Sunday? So show,

not until

Sunday, but yeah, so let me, let me, let me make this sharper, right? Let me make this sharper. I like where your head's going, right. So if I sort of think about it in the traditional newsfinder world, right? I could give you inventory for Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, right? Because I'm going to show up first thing in the morning. Wednesday. Okay, so in the traditional news vendor world, I give you my inventory for Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, I do a news vendor decision I'd be done. Is that a good idea? Okay, so you have a question, which you're going you'd

rather front

load. They're like magazines, but

okay, yes, so that's what I'm saying. Like to answer the question, I'll be on the front load on Sunday.

So let's imagine for a quick second, because I'm going to take these ideas to other settings. Let's imagine I'm selling milk. Okay, just just for argument's sake, like something that doesn't have, like a whatever, but has an expert or something. So I milked the cows on Saturday. I'm bringing this up. I just want to kind of put aside the of put aside the timeliness, isolate the issue, right? And so the question is, basically, I like, where your head's going, right? So, you know, I've got, in the traditional news vendor world, I would put an inventory for Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, right? And then I show up with on Wednesday, with inventory for the rest of the day. My question is, should I think about it that way. Should I give you the right news vendor party for Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, or should I be doing Sunday? All right, you want to do more? Yeah. Okay, so adult is saying we should do more. I agree with a right. We should do more. Why? Why should we do more than just Sunday, Monday, Tuesday? Let's talk.

Because we don't speak. Because,

well, then, I mean, like that argument, just don't do the middle point

in the middle of the week, he can look

at the inventory level

and reduce cost on the second

delivery the impact cost of delivery, right? Like, I'm still going to drive the van. I'm still going to do all that stuff, so that's why it just gets dumped in the van and it takes it around, so it's no, there's no, like, variable cost, right? To this, this is the cost of the trip, so I'm not going to save money by, you know, giving them less and, like, let's say it was variable cost. Then I pay more, presumably at the start, right? So that doesn't, that doesn't really die. So why? Why? Why give a little bit more initially? Have you spoken

to them? So if we, you know, the get the more than the half? Yeah. So you know, we can cover the spike of the, you know, they could

possibly, let's try this this way. What if, actually, I did a news vendor decision for Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, as opposed to, you know, doing more than that, as Abdul suggesting what could go wrong. This is the other show. We have to have enough structure to cover

the Salesforce,

even so

what could go wrong? Okay, let's, let's think about what could go wrong. What could go wrong? Right on my on if I did, this is I've given you enough inventory for Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, that's a good that's a pretty volatile estimate, right? And so chances are I might actually sell out. I might actually sell out before, right? And then you've got this situation where you kind of sold out in the middle of the week before, like, the person shows up. Now let's say I was kind of generous with that, with that thing, right? So instead of caring for Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, I was kind of generous, and I padded it more than Is this a risky move? And the short answer is not a risky move. And I want to know why. Okay,

Brandon, you can imagine, if you think of it, the week is sort of period one, period two, yeah. And your 99% value for period one, which is first after the week, whatever is left over, whatever is

left over, perfect, right? So that's the idea, right? I love the way Brendan put it. So I got period one, period two, right? And I've got uncertainty in period one, and then at the end one, I have a very clear view of what will happen in period two, right? That's that second kind of, that second distribution. That's much tighter, because I know what the week is looking like, right? So what Brandon's saying is it's okay to over stop like crazy on period one, because whatever is left over, if there is stuff left over, and we want to make sure about it some level, that we want to what could go wrong, what could go wrong is going to run out in period one. I don't want that to happen, right? So what I'll do is I'll scoop for a very, very high service level in period one, the 99 whatever it is. And yes, I will have stuff left over, but that stuff left over is not salvaged, because I can use that towards period two, and then I only need to add in so much as to kind of make sure that I don't sell out over period two. But that decision is much easier, because I have a much clearer view of demand in period two. Everybody see this idea right now? Here's what I find remarkable about this idea, right? What is kind of the capex of doing what I just described? Zero. It's precisely zero, right? I can do what I just described without actually investing in anything, right? Like, okay, I better invest in smarts, right? And in this case, by the way, the guy, if you saw the video with Assaf, this was like, as ops, like PhD thesis at the Technion, right? So he decided, so I haven't noticed off really well by the friendly, okay? And so anyways, so like, his PSD thesis while he was like, CTO at Yayoi, right? And so he was like, This can't be right, right? Like, of course, there are better ways of doing. Yes, you're pretty smart about that, right? But it doesn't cost money, right? It doesn't cost, like, capex, by the way. Here's another extreme way of kind of thinking about this, right? I don't know if you guys have been this might seem apropos of nothing, but let me just say I don't know if you guys have been tracking these crazy pay packages for, like, smart people in AI, right? Like, nine figure packages. Like, yeah, it's like, north of, like, what you would get as, like, even a place like grand tech, right? Like, way north, right? And so you start to think about that, like, Zucker may seem crazy, but just think about what he's doing, right? Like, it's actually the same story. He's like, Well, listen the capex, and actually running AI goes into, like, 10s of billions of dollars, right? This is nothing relatively. So it's like $100 million relative to, you know, $50 million on, like a data center. And the cost of running that data center is nothing, right? It's just the same sort of notion over here, right? Like, he's like, a little bit smarter, right? It's okay. It's a paper to be a little bit smart. That's fine, because what you're going to pay is going to probably end up being way real, OK, so not advocating for nine figure packets, that's the ridiculous. But for other reasons, that should be a discussion onto its own. But in any event, everybody see this big idea over here, right? The question is, did it work? The short of it is, yeah, it worked, actually, really well. So let me tell you a little bit about like, you know, what these guys did. They did a little pilot. Oh, what the hell

I think I've pulled up maybe the wrong, the wrong version of the slides. Give me a quick second. I have pulled up the wrong version of the slides, my apologies. Give me a quick second. Yeah. Okay, here we go. This is a good version of the slides. Sorry about that. Okay, so they did like a pilot on this kind of like magazine. I think this is like, yeah, software is like the Israeli Cosmo, okay, I have no idea, right? So let me just tell you a little bit about the pilot, right? So, in a pilot that looks exactly like what we just described, there's no capex. It's just this clever idea, right? And let's look at what the results are, right? So first off, look at the order quantity. So first of all, the total inventory you're ordering that's gone down 9% right? Returns have gone down like 40% there's almost no salvage. Sales have actually gone down, gone up, but that's like, let's call that flat, right? So sales are flat because it impacts sales, and stock outs have actually gone down like 50% all right? And so it's a very simple idea, right, which basically we're saying, Look, we want the gains of pooling. Sometimes, getting the gains of pooling is not easy, right? It's not like we can build this store that suddenly pulls all the demands. So the clever idea over here was how to accomplish virtual pooling, right? How do we accomplish virtual pool, right? And with virtual pooling, you can get most of the gains of pooling. Okay, let me ask you a quick question before jumping into like Amazon and Walmart and so on and so forth. Let's say you're a stop, right? You're a smart guy, you see all this, right? But you know, the newspaper business is like kind of crap, right? What do you do with an idea of this? What's the kind of product content of this idea? What might you do with this idea? Yeah, yeah. So whereas, okay, okay, can

be applied, okay, but if you were building a business, what would your business do? Anything related to logic that's a little bit broad, you going. I want to, I want to cut this down and make it more kind of crisp. Michael sales for sports,

kind of

like a pure analytics business is very hard, right? Like it's because it's a long conversation, it's just hard businesses, right? Because it's, they're more like consulting businesses as opposed to anything, right? Those kind that's fine. It's an honest business, but it's not kind of a product, right? It's normal service. Just sort of asking, here is that kind of a product that we might be able to sell? And then you can look at

every other magazine. Lawyer.

Okay, so maybe you build a distribution service, right? You're saying, I'll do the distribution service. I like that. Okay? That. I think the downside of the distribution service part is, then I gotta go and do a bunch of other craft, right? Like, I gotta build a service that's probably required that I have, like, drivers and vans, whatever. That feels a little painful, right? But, I mean, I like, but what I like about that is that there's, like, the problem here that's like, all those things I don't like the I don't like the fact that I now invest in vans. No, I'm doing have your friends? No, I'm talking about, like, a South going off and doing his own thing. So yeah, Alexi, actually, if I'm going to people that have spoken before, Rashad had his hand up for a while, go Rashad, I was trying to do new names, and then, like, I went to an accident. But then I figured, I should be fair. You don't like measures. I agree. And I wish if I was saying too my question is like, what's the problem Shira, distribution software? I mean, that's in line with what Michael's saying, right? But I want more right? Like, what is the product you're selling. It's like, what does distribution software mean? I don't want that. So what is the product given some? Tell me the product given some,

yeah, something with a shelf life or expiration date. Like, you're going to sell me, like, more meaning, like, on the news, like, like topic or the middle of like, like, in a short period of time being able to optimize that where you kind of want that over time, to get a shorter window.

Sure, I think you guys are all agreeing on, right? There's no question that you're all agreeing on that. What I'm asking is, imagine you come to me, I'm not like an, you know, I'm not like a I'm not a sophisticated guy, right? Like, you know, I just do what I do, right? Like, maybe I'm a specialist that, where do you what, what? What category do you want to sell into? You said earlier, like, consumer products. Like, what happens?

Everything involves it.

So who's your customer? Who's your customer? Dairy products. Okay, so you're coming to some guy or gal that manages, like, let's say a big dairy farm that, like, sells to like, a bunch of, like, I don't know, let's say grocery stores, right? That plastic I know about cows, I don't know about like, all this, like, this sounds like, really complicated. So what's the product you're selling. I wonder if the product is precise,

okay, but then my cows and my milk, Oh, yeah. But

be in a separate like nonsense,

got it, but that's just a completely different thing, right? There's nothing to do with this. I'm not saying that's a bad business. I'm just saying it has nothing to do with this business, right? Because it doesn't leverage this all right? Alexander, I have nothing, but I don't know what

you said. Okay,

so normally we have like these peaks of

consumption, and

it's like a crazy thing. Oh,

yeah, that's a really clever idea, actually. So no, that's a cover idea that is a business. So there's a lot of people that do this, that is an existing business, right? The way it works is that these things called like day ahead markets and these businesses end up being that

is cheap from some centers, but if you order ports,

you just pay. So there's a

couple businesses, like,

if you don't buy enough, then it was doing that, failing much more than kilowatt completely. So there's a couple businesses that do this, but unfortunately, they end up being like consulting businesses, right? Because if you start thinking about these energy providers, there's not that many of them, right? And so what you end up doing is setting up the software like for these guys,

like, there is another example, for example, home generation, so you put solar panels in your house, and just try to understand how much you can consume in your house and how much you can smear

in your house. I will, I will, I will take your ideas, avoid a further argument, but there's some subtle differences. We could talk more later, right? I like what you're thinking. It's not like a lot of elements of this. It's good. Go ahead. So what if

I'm selling to the retailers a system that tells them when and how much order of the product?

Yeah. So you gotta, I like where you're going now, right? Like, basically what you're saying is, as a retailer or as one of these distributors, let's say I'm not a specialist in doing all this fancy stuff, right? I make my product well, and I don't want to spend that inventory. So your promise to me needs to be very, very simple, right? Buy my stuff and you'll save this, right? And so the question is, like, what are they buying from you? So one ingredient is clearly the analytics that you guys were talking about, right? That makes sense. But what else is needed? I feel like there's something else that's needed that we've not, that we've not spoken to. What was a crucial ingredient to actually being able to make this prediction, right? In order for me, so the sales guy, right? Like the sales guy got in his truck left like, you know, Wednesday early morning, for us to know how much stuff we should put in this truck to get to show town. What did we need? Layla, track, sales? Yeah, we need, like, very, very, we need to have, like, as sort of fresh information as possible on exactly what is Salesforce, right? And that's kind of complicated, right? If you sort of think about like, that's a little bit tricky. So in this particular case, by the way, a SAS idea was, well, why don't we use this as a way of, like, kind of, sort of selling a combo service? Okay, so we'll sell these little RFID tags, right? These RFID tags are gonna track everything that's like actually happening in your store, right? We might even sell the RFID tags that are very, very cheap, depending on the cost of the product to the person making the magazine or the person, like, I don't know, you know, selling the t shirt or whatever it is, right? So that's one part of the service, right? And the other part of the service is exactly what we just talked about, right? You will actually take care of the problem of actually tracking all the inventory and this and that. I don't need to think about it, right, because the company actually thinks about it, and in return, what I'm giving you is all of this value. It's a very clever idea on the south side, because really building sort of a business case for fid has been actually very challenging. Why would I spend all this money? And the self saw this as a really, really nice opportunity, right? To kind of build a very strong business case for why you would want to track inventory and how we get kind of value out. Okay, so he's working hard on that business, right? Maybe it works. Maybe it doesn't. I can see lots of reasons. It might not as well, right? But this is the reason I brought up this question to the class. Was to sort of say, you know, even when you get to this point, right? Thinking about how to productize is kind of non trivial. It's not, it's not obvious how you might actually productize this, right? And as often as ideas, you know, who knows if his ideas work right? By the way, this is his like company now selling things to bakeries and this and that. Right to kind of do the to do the same, to do the same thing. Okay, so I want to pause here, right, just to kind of wrap up, uh, I'll get to relevant, right? Just to wrap up, what are we talking? Okay, we basically said a couple of different points. One, right, volatility sucks. We said this repeatedly, right, because volatility effectively translates to carrying all the safety stock. Safety stock equals dollars, equals friction. We don't mind, right? So how do we combat Well, one way of combat is, right? Is, what if we sort of had a better idea of things? And one way of getting a better idea of things is kind of this portfolio effect that my Well, talked about, right? Averaging risk. If we somehow average risk. That's one way of controlling volatility, right? So we saw how that played out. The problem with that was it's not obvious how you might go about doing that. Yes, I can do that with pencil and paper, but how would I do that in the real world? Right? In the case of yellow, we came up with a very, very nice idea, right, between intro and Sandra and Lexi and others, right? There's this really nice idea of, like, hey, actually, we'll, there's almost no capex needed, right? To using Brandon's words, think this, think of this as two periods, right? We'll get, we'll period one, we'll do something, we'll get a better idea of what's going to happen in period two, and we'll save a lot of inventory, kind of doing that, right? The final point that kind of talked about, almost as an aside, was productizing. All this can be non trivial, right? Like, great. So you've saved a lot of money for Daniel, is there, like, a business here? Is there a product of you, right? I really enjoy kind of thinking about that talent, right, as an aside. It's also the perfect segue into Amazon. This is actually the culture at Amazon. The culture at Amazon is where they come up with solutions, right? They're actually thinking about, well, you know, great, we're coming up with a solution for something that's our problem. But could we sell this right as a solution to other people? Right? Is this good enough that I could actually sell it to others, right? So what I'm doing over here for myself good enough that I can get somebody else to pay for their own business. By the way, this is the genesis of AWS, which today is arguably, perhaps more important than Amazon retail, right? So this monetization thing is also extremely important. And I think as we sort of go along, I want to ask more of those sorts of questions and start exercising that muscle. Okay, so that's the idea. Let's let's do a couple questions. No product, right? Yeah, a sauce product. A sauce product is basically good, good. What's the product? So basically, what when he sells, right? Is a system that will tell you exactly how much to send to a store at what point. That's it, right? If you start to think about so, he's not going to do the logistics, but he's going to tell you, this is what you want to carry now, right? And the idea is that in doing that, you'll eventually, kind of like, get all the gains that we were talking about over here, less inventory, less solid blah, blah, blah, more sales, less stock, outs, all those things, right? So very simple to sell it to me, right? I don't need to understand the hocus pocus of what you're doing. You're just going to tell me, Hey, follow what I'm saying, and you'll waste less inventory. I love, right? How is he making that happen. He's making that happen using the ideas we talked about, along with some cheap tracking, right? Because that, as you sort of think about the the vast untapped market, to his mind, right? It's sort of unorganized retail, right? All of these moms have talked about, make up, like, a huge section of demand, by the way, good, like developing economies, that is. Reasonable. And so his view is that, like, basically, you know, we're going to track inventory for cheap over there and take advantage of the fact that RFID has become super cheap, right? That's what I'm going to do. In terms of, what are the risks of doing this? Right? I can think of lots of risks, right. One is the juice worth of squeeze, right? So, like, what is the value of the bread that you're saving? Right? Is that going to actually make up for the cost of the tag? And this is that. So I think his challenge is going to be picking and choosing verticals appropriately, right, where the value of saving the stuff is actually kind of worth the squeeze. The other sort of, I think, and this is actually tailwind as opposed to headwind. I think as this stuff scales, all the RFID stuff, all that stuff, is just going to get cheaper, right? You know, I remember sort of thinking I was on MIT's, like, RFID counseling, whatever, like, 10 or 15 years ago. I thought it was gonna go nowhere, right? Like, because in those days, the price of a tag was, like, something like 20 cents. It's, like, really expensive. 20 cents is insane. Like, I'm gonna spend 20 cents of a thing of bread. That's crazy, right? It doesn't work. Today, you can make these tags for a cent, right? Like, so, like, almost like, like, so, clearly, one order of magnitude. So you can imagine it's getting cheaper and cheaper. That might be, yeah, that might actually work instead, is it cost? Me cost, right? But that's the whole point. It makes sense, right? I'm selling you a service you're going to

see in the inventory. I want to build up on your RFID ideas. You asked them questions already, but I'm thinking like we look at the RFID market, we found it's a very difficult market, because for some companies, your job is to make RFID super cheap and also making a super counselor, yeah. And now I understand why it's a difficult business for staff, because you only work with large clients who have a high demand of managing huge amount of inventory, so you have purchasers, meaning that the kind of customer has too much power to squeeze out your business, taking a lot of technical risks to make it

happen. You don't have an emotion power. So that means that's a very difficult I think the

other issue is that, like people, took a long time to kind of get to the fact that the right, sorry for the digression. The other thing over there is people took a long time to get to the fact that the right, the way to think about this was the classic kind of, like, desktop printer model, right? Where, like, don't worry about the cost of the infrastructure that'll amortize over time, right? Think about, like, the cost of the time. So that was, like, the first step. But then, who's going to keep the cost of the tax right? It took a long time to understand what is the value. And so it's taken a while to kind of see businesses come up, where you actually see the value of the tax. But now actually, if you think of the tail end of people wanting stuff fast, it's actually there is a lot of value to this, right? And so that's we took one or Two more for. One or two more questions.

Of their very natural places,

absolutely. So I think, like as we get into John the Amazon discussion is going to become really important. I lost track. I know there's Rashad, how big Is the market?

Where you see

uh, I think the value of the market equals some fraction of what you're saying and, right? Like, potentially, there's a hope of saving huge amounts of inventory. So I think that's kind of how it's economic. But I think the Challenger here, I think so, I think to see six questions, right? There was an initial, kind of, like, value question is that you can have, I think 10 years ago, the question wasn't good, right? Today, I think the question is a little bit more clear. I think there is value. What's not cracked yet? It's the exact product, right? Like, what is the product you're going to sell as a business, right? How do we structure this business so it works well for every

needs? I think that's the big time.

Insurance. Make sure, in this case, improvement.

What's the question?

What's the

question? In this case, you mentioned you may need to compare improvement in efficiency, increasing sales,

good. So I think in the Danielle case is fairly simple, right? Single, direct sensor, cloud. What didn't sort of increase or decrease, rather, is the cost of the sales, right? Because from where that stops preparing that's inventory. So I think the size of the equation are, what's the value of what you're saying? If the inventory itself is worthless, then, like, some fraction of that is also broken, right? And the other kind of inventory is actually valuable, right? Then, yes, it is also valuable. So I think that's one side of the equation, right to understand what's the value question, saying that's going to be a function of, like, mining the right box of inventory, requiring that those you know, that inventory. The other side of the equation is what we're just discussing with the related technology, right? So the analytics are free, right? I think the implementation is hard because it needs a little bit of hardware, and I think the value equation is, if we actually offer that tracking, keep it up, right? So that has kind of alright.

So leave this behind us, right? And this is, I think, a great one off. All right, I want to sort of talk about Amazon again. The way I'm going to do this is, want to talk about Amazon today and into tomorrow, and then sometime, maybe even today, I'm going to pivot this discussion to talk about Walmart again. You'll see why, right? But, yeah, so I want to, I want to basically talk about Amazon, and basically I want to hit three points. Okay, so between the rest of the time, we have today and tomorrow, right? I basically want to hit three points. So one, you know, coming back to kind of the picture I drew Monday morning, two weeks ago, right? What is that kind of strategic position that goes into understanding what is the product over here? Why do we value the product? Why do we go there, as opposed to anywhere else? I think I want to get our heads all in the same place on that, which I want to do today. Then I actually want to talk about their supply chain, right with the focus on kind of the Yeti, old components of their supply chain. Okay? Why? Because that's the most important part of their supply chain. That's the stuff that gets you stuff. Okay? And so I want to kind of focus on that, understand that. And then the puzzle I want to attack is, you know, how we might and how could we approach beating Amazon sustainably? Okay, how could we, how could we kill these guys? Okay, that's, that's, that's kind of what I want to hit between today and tomorrow. This is a discussion, all right, um, so I just want to start with, kind of, just give just giving everybody, some of you already know this, some of you don't. I just want to make sure we're all level set in terms of the market we're talking about, okay? So I'm not talking about AWS, to be clear, right? I'm talking about the retail side of the business. So basically, you know, Amazon operates in sort of E commerce, as you guys know, right? This is a picture of like us e commerce, right? The penetration of us e commerce isn't super high, okay, so, like, it's expected to be about 18% odd this year, right? It's gonna, kind of, it's growing kind of slowly and steadily, right, a percentage point or two every year, right? So that's, that's the numbers over here, right? That's these numbers over here. By the way, in contrast, in China, this is more or less plateaued, right? So in China, e commerce is about 50% of retail, and it's been about 50% of retail for some time, okay, so you can imagine this growing and then plateauing somewhere. And by the way, when I, when I draw this again, when I look at total retail, I'm kind of excluding, I'm excluding gas and excluding food, right? That doesn't, that doesn't make sense to include, okay, so, so that's, that's kind of that. And this is sort of the story in China, as I said, right? So China, it's kind of mature, right? They leapfrog into E commerce, and it's kind of matured at sort of 50% and you know, if you look at kind of the size of that change, right? It's pretty small. It's about 7% whereas in the US, it's double digits. Okay, so the net of it is, if you sort of just in terms of, you know, just setting the stage over here, e commerce is a non trivial fraction of retail. It's growing by double digits every year, and probably has a ton of hyper Okay, that's, that's how you should sort of think about right? And it's a big market, okay, so how big is this market, right? So in 24 the size of the market, again, excluding food and gas, was about $1.2 trillion right? So it's a $1.2 trillion fine of money growing about, you know, by double digits, you know, sort of every year. And in China, it's about a three and a half trillion dollar market. Why? Because they kind of converge, okay, right? So that's, that's kind of the bigger the bigger picture, the bigger sort of state of, the bigger sort of state of affairs, a big market growing by double digits. Any guesses for what fraction of this market Amazon owns? 10% Yeah, 4040, it's 40. Amazon owns 40% of this market, which is insane, all right? That's like, amazing, right? Like, it just makes me happy just thinking that that's possible, right? Like, it's seriously, like, pretty, pretty incredible. Okay, so they own 40% of the market, right? And by the way, who do you think their next biggest competitors, Walmart? What percent of the market doing? Walmart? What's that? 17? 7% Yeah, it's actually slightly less about six and something. All right, so, so it's 40% and then the next player is like 6% right? This is even more amazing. All right, that's even more amazing. So they're like a behemoth, that's a pretty, pretty incredible company over here, right? That's a retail revenue in 24 was like almost a half trillion dollars. As I said, 40% of UIC commerce, right? They have three 50 million unique products. They ship about a million items every day, okay? They ship these out of about 175 different fulfillment centers. Fulfillment Centers, okay, globally. I think about our I can't remember the number in the US, right? And obviously they have international websites and so on and so forth. Here's what I'd like to do. We all shop on Amazon. Okay, it's not. Maybe some of you, if you're international geography, you shop on some Amazon competitor, right? To a large extent, we're all sort of shopping on Amazon, and what I'd like for you guys to do is spend three minutes, okay, discussing kind of two things, right? What makes Amazon particularly attractive to you? Right? Like, why is it so sticky for you, right? I like you to reflect on right? And I think one way of sort of reflecting on that is thinking about how your purchases on Amazon have changed, right? Like if at the end of the month, you kind of look at how much money you spent and where you've spent it, right? I'm kind of curious about what fraction is going to like Amazon, or something like Amazon, right? I'd like you to kind of reflect on why that's okay, why is it so sticky for you. Okay, so I want, I want, I want you to understand from you as a consumer, why Amazon has become so sticky for you, right? So that's your view as a as a consumer. And then secondly, you know, you're sitting at MIT, you know, thinking about like businesses and this and that. But what do you think, right? What do you view as kind of Amazon's core capabilities? What do you view as their sort of superpower sitting on the outside? Okay, so spend a few minutes on this correct I want to come back out and discuss.

You Us All right, let's, let's start with why Amazon's so sticky for you. Yeah, go ahead. I

almost okay. I agree with all this. I can buy expensive things online as

it. Got it. Got it. So I tweet what you said there, like, I think what I'm interpreting, what you're saying is saying is basically find a broader assortment right party had, like, some set of things, and you went to an Amazon search and forgot he had the option to find, you know, whatever the thing is, a million thread count. Million thread count by me. Like I'm not a billionaire yet, so I'm hoping so. As he said, No, like I wanted to be in a different spot. And so they had those options. So one thing was assortment, I guess there was a second thing that you said, which is basically the return business. So tell me more about that.

Five. Okay, so easy returns, but what does that mean for you? I guess, like, so what? So what? Like, great. So, returns are easy. What does that mean to your behavior, right? Like, I understand that you like easy returns, but what I'm asking is, what is what is that prompt with respect to your like downstream behavior? Yeah, so you said the risk of getting something you don't want is really low because I can, kind of just, I can return it, and the friction is not that bad. Yeah. They so large assortment, low risk of making the wrong purchase. Ninth

convenience for me, I don't want to go out and get paper towels from CVS or

wherever, so I just go to Amazon.

The like the most convenient household

hats. Okay, walk me through your process. So like for ordering, like whatever your paper towels or your detergent or whatever. What's your process for that?

Well, I usually go online to Amazon and see what the prices are. See what the variety is there. If the price looks decent to me, I usually order it and I can receive it in short number. What brand is different,

policy, market.

Always like walk me through the process of buying time specifically.

Well they usually have huge packets, so you don't have to order them very often. So one

bowl. So you go there, you look for like a massive thing, and you say, ship it to me. And then it just shows. Okay, does anybody have, like, the subscribe business? Oh, did that shit up? Same thing for buying better you might. Whatever,

yeah,

yeah, you never actively sort of say I want something else, unless they're like some major SNAP food with the product you're not even thinking about. Right? How many products is that the case for in your household? If I'm fine diapers, and I know that we

actually

do, when they're gonna last all the products related to him, yeah? And then there are a few products on the grocery side which are added to my cart, and they get replenished every week.

Yeah. I have all kinds of things on the Subscribe and say, I even have, like, so, like, maybe, like, some years ago, I tried this. No, no, no, they don't care about granted, I'm pretty fussy about that. But a few years ago, this is, like, an example of how ridiculous this has gotten. A few years ago, my wife got us this, like chili oil, which just like whatever, I really freaking liked it. So I've subscribed and saved on the channel, right? And, like, a bottle shows up, like, kind of every month, and I put that crap on the pizza and everything, right, like, because I like it. And, you know, that's subscribing to it. And of course, we have, like, tight unsubscribe and save, and this is, like, the long list of

things, I guess it's the range of the quality half, and also the discount. I mean, they're guaranteed. I mean, they are really the cheapest on the market, no matter how long you find it. And I guess this other thing is storage, because in my building, they only have storage, only for Amazon in China. We actually the storage are available for older e commerce. So they come, they become monopoly, because they have infrastructure within my building done. And also the finally, I think the review is also important. The what is important? Reviews on the Amazon because they, ah, walk me through how the reviews are important. Oh, when you try to find search a product, then you try to find the review that actually can tell you that, especially a more expensive product, whether these things can last longer, yeah. So you trust the reviews. You read all those reviews. But the problem is the review, I found that in America only work for cheaper product to a certain price, the more expensive, one thing people are able to avoid. They don't even have time to got

it. So there's some diversity in like, where you trust the reviews, but you find the reviews useful, yes, but what I'm trying to do here is like form, like a purchase funnel, right? You sort of think about the purchase funnel. These are all important parts of that funnel. So it's like, Well, okay, I have all these choices. How do I choose reviews?

Carlos, one aspect like, is the technology, reviews and

search results, for example. So some

ways to pay for something is maybe lower I can just or maybe if it's a new product, and I just pick a photo, for example, so they implement this sort of like new tech in order to be able to facilitate and they may show like different vendors even use product.

Yeah. So if you sort of think about like, one very important part of the equation over here is, like, if you're going to a store, you'd have to go find the aisle and this and that, whatever right online. There's a search box right, and you can even maybe put in a picture, whatever it is, and you're expected to get pretty good, good

results. They mentioned the different

supply, yeah, by the way, just to kind of give you a sense of how important this is for Amazon. Like, 22 years ago, I guess this is in 2003 right? They were willing to spend a half billion dollars on acquiring a search provider, right? So this is like, before they were giant, before whatever, right? Like they were willing to, that is very important, right? Because that's the gateway to, kind of like how you discover things. You type in a few keywords you want to see exactly what you want, and I think you put it just right. You want to minimize search costs. That's a big question. Love staff. It anticipates Amazon anticipates

what I want. It suggests to me things that I might like, which I love. No love, wow,

right? The subscribe and tune thing is like, an example of that, by the way, right? I think you're talking about, like, serendipitous stuff, right? Things that I that I wouldn't

normally try or that I

wouldn't interact with my day to day. It's like, Oh, you like this great squash, yeah. What about this thing? The space gloves? So

basically, what you're saying is they're exposing you things that you wouldn't

really think of fun, right? And because it knows me, I'm more confident that I'm going to like it after I got it. So actually, I want to dig into diagnosis.

But what sort of data does Amazon have on probably more than I realized. So Amazon has like cross sectional information. They don't like everything, right? Like you think about Amazon. Amazon knows what I eat, what I buy, right? It just so happens that I shop at Whole Foods, right? And so they know what I'm buying to eat, they know what I buy. They know everything, right? So they have this cross sectional thing, and that's a huge sale of bread, right? So that's a massive, massive data I don't think it's that crazy to say they kind of know what you want next, right? So they have a huge, they have a huge data advantage. They know exactly they can anticipate your needs. I really like the way you put it, data advantage, you know, anticipation, like, get some new hands maybe. Yeah. Christina, okay, thank you. Tell me more about that. Tell me more about speed. Like, what are your expectations on speed? But

how fast next day? A couple hours? Right? Like, like, two days is already too long.

Two days is like, kind of table stakes, like, longer than two days, maybe you don't consider right, longer than two days, maybe don't consider it two days, fine, right? And, yeah, right. Like, ideally faster than the actual suppliers. And you have to this may be completely anecdotal, but, like, it's a fun story to tell. So I, like, So way back when I, you know, I was kind of little bit of a chain smokers. Then I stopped smoking, like 20 years ago, and then I started eating candy. You need to, you do something. And so I started eating candy. Candy, really unhealthy. So I moved to my jelly beans. And initially, so I buy, you get, like, a, get, like a two pound bag. So I buy these two pound bags, and I have, like, now I've noticed that I can get jelly beans delivered to my house in like three hours, right? My local store holds on to this, and I have a hard time imagining there's too many people buying, like, two pound bags of televisions, right? So, yeah, I think they're really, really good at, like, kind of figuring out data and tracking. Like, this works, this is going to sell. This is important, that kind of stuff, right? And so I like that, right? Like, the fact that you can get it really quickly, that matters a lot. Okay, we take one or two more points. And I want to kind of collect this discussion. Gosh, you've not spoken, so I think, I

think the inventory

is also helpful for us. To shorten our choice you want. It's useless to say, you know, you have 1000 different bench friends, if only three of them are available, right? So, so when we actually talk about availability, it's an important point. When we talk about availability, what we're really talking about is that you can get it fast, right? If it's something that you can get in like 10 days, that may as well not be available, right? And so I really like your point, like availability, the assortment, right? When we talk about having a lot of choice, having a lot of choice is about having all that choice, but having access to it fast. Okay, let me actually lift up this discussion a little bit right. Like, you know, I know that Duncan necessarily talked about this, but if you take like, a bunch of marketing classes, you definitely will see this, right? So there's, there's this kind of, like, standard kind of purchase funnel that one thinks about right in purchase decisions that is kind of as old as man, right? Like, nothing particularly deep about this. This is how we make decisions. And it starts with some vague sense of like, I need something, right? Like, oh man, I want to have a cigarette. I can't smoke candy, I can't eat. I want jelly beans, right? So that sounds like big sense, right? Now, that's that coalesced into, like, basically, okay, now I know what I want. I'm gonna search for it, right? You search for the thing, and you get lots of options, right? Okay, what happens after you get lots of options, you have to make a decision, right? Okay, you can run into kind of all sorts of things with making that decision, right? There's a thing called The Paradox of Choice, by the way, that decision making really hard, right? So you need to make that decision quickly, and then once you make it, and you don't want the overhead of making the decision, and after you make the decision, you want to basically be able to find that right. If you think about every stage of that. All of those stages represent the friction, right? Like finding that, like finding the thing coalescing to like this is what you want to actually kind of say, I'm okay with buying this right to all that we've done, each of these stages represents the friction, and Amazon has worked their butt off to kind of eliminate friction at every single one of those things, right? The search to you know, your point. And not only is it a search that works well, it's a search that personalized exactly what what you want, right? So they're not going to waste your time right then, in terms of like kind of you making the decision, reviews and this and that, but also, right, the guarantee that if I don't like it, I can return it quickly so that friction goes away. Right? Like, on the one hand, the character is, hey, this is good. Other people are saying it's good. And another side, it's like, what if I'm wrong? No big deal, right? I get easy returning to finally making the purchase, like, getting that Buy Now button, right? By the way, Amazon has a team of, like, probably an order of 100 people that make that Buy Now, button work the way it does, and then they say, what? That's just a button, right. But no right when that button gets hit, there's all sorts of transactions happening to kind of avoid fraud. And Amazon has found that, like basically removing milliseconds of friction on that button right increases your purchase probability. So they actually have a whole stack of new ways of, kind of mitigating progress while closing your transaction instantaneously. That's a big investment. Okay, by the way, that's a business unto itself. There are whole businesses that have come up, like volt and others, to try and replicate exactly that functionality for other reasons. Okay, so Amazon has gone they've looked at every one of these things that kind of eliminate friction, right? Here's what I want to do when we come back tomorrow, when we come back to I think we all appreciate like, you know why this is sticky for us? When I come back tomorrow, I want to do two. I want to take kind of a slightly deeper dive into understanding what Amazon supply chain looks like, what are Amazon's investments? What are their capabilities? Okay, I want to spend 30 minutes talking about that. Now, what I want to do is, I want to turn around. I'm going to ask you the following questions, right? I'm going to say, imagine that you've done with me, the CEO of Walmart, right? And he's sitting down in this room, some corner, listening to everybody saying what they just said, right? By the way, how many of you have the Walmart app? Yeah, okay, probably around the 6% mark. Three or four of you that have the Walmart app. The Walmart app is an incredible app, okay, it's a really, really good app. They've invested billions of dollars in that Walmart app. But why would you have the app, because the Amazon App is good enough. Like right Why do you need another app. So what I want to talk about tomorrow, they say, if you're talking with millet, how do you deal with this problem. Okay, so that's not Doctor set up or see that's tomorrow.

Transcribed by https://otter.ai
