Entrepreneurship research is on the rise but many questions about its fundamental nature still exist. We argue that entrepreneurship is about experimentation: the probabilities of success are low, extremely skewed and unknowable until an investment is made. At a macro level experimentation by new firms underlies the Schumpeterian notion of creative destruction. However, at a micro level investment and continuation decisions are not always made in a competitive Darwinian contest. Instead, a few investors make decisions that are impacted by incentive, agency and coordination problems, often before a new idea even has a chance to compete in a market. We contend that costs and constraints on the ability to experiment alter the type of organizational form surrounding innovation and influence when innovation is more likely to occur."

[[09-22|25-09-22]]
- While this Darwinian depiction is important and a natural starting point, a second reference point emphasizes that we should be cautious of assuming that market-based mechanisms can always serve as a guiding hand with respect to experimentation.
- To flesh out this point, it is important to separate two frames of reference regarding experimentation. The first relates to economic experimentation in a Darwinian sense, which is the natural starting point for most economists. In this conceptual model, new ventures compete with existing products and technologies, and the ensuing competition leads to the survival of the fittest, just as Google surpassed its early rivals due to its superior technology.
- However, the investment and continuation decisions for entrepreneurs are often not made in a competitive Darwinian contest, because the decisions to invest further or shut down a firm are often made by only a few investors, well before startups can compete in the product market or have positive cash flow. Moreover, the decisions are made by discrete individuals, often in venture capital firms or other early-stage financing vehicles, whose actions are impacted by a myriad of incentive, agency, and coordination problems. Thus, the extent to which the best idea goes forward may depend on factors such as the organizational structure or incentive system of the firm where the investor is based, available information sets

[[double bind]]