
deling and computation. I believe my strength can contribute to System Dynamic in mainly two ways: initialization schemes such as Bayesian optimization and uncertainty quantification. This was why I was reaching out to members of the System Dynamics group. Today I talked with James Paine and he advised me to reach out to you as you are very open to new methodologies!

The direct motivation for my interest is [this](https://streaklinks.com/BEZBYhxuLp5thH6_OgM5wDIg/https%3A%2F%2Fonlinelibrary.wiley.com%2Fdoi%2F10.1002%2Fsdr.1693%3Faf%3DR?email=hm2894%40columbia.edu) paper which uses Hamiltonian Monte Carlo to calibrate simulation dynamics. This improves the difficulties addressed (one million MCMC runs) in professor Sterman's [paper](https://streaklinks.com/BEZBYhh29rYBzDhdlATdchfH/https%3A%2F%2Fonlinelibrary.wiley.com%2Fdoi%2Ffull%2F10.1002%2Fsdr.1501?email=hm2894%40columbia.edu) by using an improved MCMC algorithm supported by visual diagnostics. From multiple research and developer experiences on Bayes (e.g. Stan, Bayesian computation open-source used in the above paper, and its diagnostics package [SBC](https://streaklinks.com/BEZBYhdbmynAG7sbUQ0OBjKP/https%3A%2F%2Fhyunjimoon.github.io%2FSBC%2Findex.html?email=hm2894%40columbia.edu)) I have a code-level understanding of the mechanism. I am attaching my CV as a reference. Could I have a chat with you about whether there might be some fun research that I can contribute?






I am curioWhat are the factors that satisfies users and how can this be 

does not align with my goal. I am passionate on more . So I am seeking for a new place to 



I judged both theoretical and user satisfaction techniques in the field can nourish my service.


Cutting-edge without heavy cusomization is the key which explains my expertise in designing and implementing pipelines for data-preprocess, model comparison, and diagnostics. 

I  two concepts I felt   Intern at Salesforce  service 






Major challenges for small business owners is the ability to exploit analytics for their management and planning. Sadly, many of the smaller outfits cannot afford these types of analytics services for decision-making and that makes them even more hesitant about the value-add of using new tools. I would like to fix this gap!"**


mathematical and computational infrastructure in finance companies will realize my 


which started in 2008 was the great place to learn 
where the value automatic decision-making proved are  has proven is proven with both online data and user's preference 

,  seemed to be cutting-edge strengthen my mathematical and computational ability for this automatic decision-making, namely autoML. 


learn this  is practically used
and I joined Columbia to learn this skillset.

as the first domain where
, known was the bestAutomized modular manner. 

I have mathematical and computational expertise in autoML. This is from five years of CEO and two years of developer experience.  and two years of Stan (Bayesian computation open-source) developer experience. As a former startup CEO, I sympathize the need for "explainability" and as a developer I have code-level knowldedge of HMC sampler. I believe this end to end knowledge and skillset can contribute to your goal of drawing the roadmap of ML in Finance.

Seemingly opposite two pursuits are similar in depth. Considering

Developing automatic framework is the main reason I chose Columbia. Imbalanced diffusion of value/wealth that ML creates alarmed a junior undergraduate who founded a startup, NextOpt, with the vision "cutting-edge **Next** number and **Opt**imization service at cheap price". For cost-competitiveness, Minimal customization (e.g. Finance, SCM) 



I know howWith my experience on builiding autoML engine for time-series, this could contribute to your interest in classifying models, 
, from my experience as Stan developer, r open-source and its diagnostics


For very humane reasons. From the eye of an undergraduate junior, scholars' hard work benefitted mostly big companies. I decided to develop a forecast and optimization module service with two unnegotiable conditions: cutting-edge and cheap price.  

I wish to continue our discussion on autoML approaches. 
 Markov chain Monte Carlo methods for quantifying the prior and posterior distributions induced by a a stochastic differential equation model,  

Reversing time to find the source of my research passion, I found loyalty to my country, so to speak my neighbors.   
make an open-source forecast and optimize service. I only set two unnegotiable conditions: cutting-edge quality and affordable price.   
  
From time series forecasting to Bayesian to simulation-based calibration is the trace for my stupid pursuit of two conditions. My heart is pulling me toward [Tamara Broderick](https://tamarabroderick.com/) (Bayesian), John Sterman and his [System dynamics group](https://mitsloan.mit.edu/faculty/academic-groups/system-dynamics/publications-and-working-papers), and [David Simchi-levi](https://cee.mit.edu/people_individual/david-simchi-levi/) at MIT. I believe interaction with them will push me one step closer to "Trust-building for approximation". I believe the keyword is Bayesian inverse problem. After talking to my friends at MIT, I am now going to Boston to meet System dynamics group tomorrow.  

  

  

--  




supervised vs unsupervised

- EM, latent model

CNN과 Bayes hierarchical model

> They are deep neural networks that contain two networks, competing with one another, that is where the name is coming from, used in unsupervised machine learning

정수성

PIDE solving unsupervised learning is spin-offed from PDE solving supervised learning. Here, given the boundary conditions, neural network becomes the solution itself, compared to neural network 

Likewise, can convolution between prior distribution and likelihood be spin-offed to unsupervised learning where given the boundary value (observation (y)), certain range of parameter value (once simulation reached equilibrium) be regarded as the solution (prior)? To be specific, the prior would be the solution for self-consistency equation which is an integral forumaltion.This process may be related to Bayesian deconvolution (a.k.a. prior elicitation, inverse probelm) 


I have expertise in Bayesian deconvolution and generative model verification. My strength can contribute to your research in designing uncertainty propagation workflow for system dynamics (SD). In specific, parameterization and transformations which serve the purpose of making parameters more interpretable, 

and thus facilitating the use of prior information nonidentification problem, how Bayesian hierarchical model can be viewed in  symstsys tool to understand st learn homogenity  excites me. However, to make this new structure more practical, initialization updating module and verification module are necessary in terms of robust efficiency. I summarized the scheme in one slide (attached)

; Riebler et al. (2016) give an example for a class of spatial correlation models,

