[[09-24|25-09-24]]

[[🖐🏼top5_impactful_paper]]
Academic researchers are developing a more rigorous approach to evaluating the role of entrepreneurship in the process of economic growth and prosperity. This emerging perspective provides useful guidance for both policy makers and practitioners. ${ }^1$

Entrepreneurship is a central ingredient in economic growth. It serves as a critical spur for the commercial introduction of new goods and services, as well as the opening of new markets to innovations. While few would deny the crucial role played by entrepreneurship in the process of growth, academic researchers are currently grappling with fundamental questions about exactly why the entrepreneurship process plays such a fundamental role in capitalist economies, and how policy and institutions can be designed to ensure long-term prosperity.

Increasingly, entrepreneurship researchers have focused on the role played by 'economic experiments' (Rosenberg, 1994). An economic experiment is a novel approach to value creation in the pursuit of economic gain. While economic experiments can be (and are) implemented in established companies (and can even be found in the public sector), economic experimentation is at the heart of the entrepreneurial process. A favourable environment for entrepreneurship and a high level of economic experimentation go hand in hand.

Entrepreneurship plays two special roles in the process of economic experimentation. First, entrepreneurs engage in 'extreme' experiments. Start-up ventures are not constrained by the limits of old technologies, traditional ways of organising production, or the need to serve established markets. Instead, entrepreneurs can be more aggressive than established organisations in pursuing radical approaches to the creation of economic value. Second, in contrast with purely scientific experiments, economic experiments compete with one another, with entrepreneurs once again playing a crucial role. The value of start-up activity is not limited to the (substantial) value created by new ventures, but also includes the benefits from increased competitive pressure on established firms.

Over the past decade, entrepreneurship researchers have taken an increasingly rigorous look at why economic experimentation matters, and the role of entrepreneurship in different types of economic experiments. While there are still many unanswered questions, current research increasingly focuses on three distinct 'types' of experiments — technological experiments, market experiments, and organisational experiments — as being key drivers of economic growth and prosperity.

By playing a fundamental role in the process of economic experimentation, entrepreneurship contributes decisively to the range and diversity of economically useful knowledge which is at the foundation of economic prosperity.

A similar principle informs market experimentation. Even when the technical feasibility of a new product has been established, significant experimentation is usually required to identify the market applications where the technology may be most valuable. In many if not most cases, the most appropriate market for a technology is very far removed from the vision of the initial inventor. As emphasized by MIT's Eric von Hippel, it is often users rather than manufacturers who have the knowledge and incentives required to identify the most important applications of emerging technology.

In a very careful study of the relationship between technology entrepreneurship and market experimentation, Scott Shane of Case Western Reserve University investigated how multiple technology entrepreneurs pursued a single discovery — a three-dimensional printing technology developed and licensed by MIT. Shane found that each potential licensee pursued a different potential market application for the technology, and that these very different proposals were rooted in the background and prior experience of each entrepreneur (Shane, 2000). The value from new technologies (or even old technologies) relies on the ability to apply that technology to new markets in new ways; one of the key contributions from entrepreneurial activity is to significantly enhance the range of potential market applications for technologies and thereby facilitate that process.

Finally, researchers have only recently begun to grapple with the most subtle but perhaps also the most important type of economic experiment — organisational experimentation. An organisational experiment is the development and implementation of a novel value-creation and value-capture system. Organisational experimentation links together individuals and organisations in order to exploit the interaction between market and technical opportunities. In sharp contrast to the canonical image of a lone inventor single-mindedly pursuing a technical vision, entrepreneurs pursuing organisational experiments must assemble and provide appropriate incentives and coordination for a larger team.

Consider entrepreneurs and managers in the biotechnology industry. In contrast with established pharmaceutical firms or even university laboratories, biotechnology firms possess a cluster of rather distinctive organisational characteristics, including (among other factors) active participation by firm researchers in the 'public' scientific community and extensive partnerships with the pharmaceutical industry within the context of downstream commercialisation.

In a number of related projects over the past few years, I have linked these rather nuanced organisational experiments to distinctive features of the competitive and strategic environment that surrounds biotechnology firms, including the importance of attracting the most qualified scientists to the firm and the subtle role played by intellectual property in helping to facilitate trading in the 'market for ideas' between biotechnology and pharmaceutical firms (Gans and Stern, 2003; Stern, 2004). Indeed, even in a technologically dynamic setting such as biotechnology, the most important experimental challenges for entrepreneurs seem to be how to develop an organisation to take best advantage of specific technical and market opportunities.

Consider first the role of technological experiments, perhaps the most familiar type. A technological experiment is an attempt to exploit a scientific discovery (e.g. a promising cancer treatment) or engineering opportunity (e.g. a novel software algorithm) for economic gain. In most cases, technological experimentation involves combining several known technologies in novel ways, with significant uncertainty over the performance and operation of the novel combination. Though the probability of a technical breakthrough associated with any one combination is low, the power of combinatorial problem-solving emerges when a diverse range of combinatorial experiments is attempted. For example, in the earliest years of the biotechnology industry, different research groups (some located in universities, some located in start-up firms) pursued distinctly different approaches to producing human hormones (such as insulin and human growth hormone) in bacteria. In contrast with several university groups pursuing a method based on DNA cloning, the start-up firm Genentech pursued experiments based on the idea of chemical synthesis. This alternative problem-solving approach by Genentech was crucial in determining Genentech's earliest success, and its establishment as a vanguard company in the biotechnology industry (Stern, 1995).

More recently, Lee Fleming of the Harvard Business School has completed large-scale empirical studies (based on patent data) of the process of combinatorial research, which has provided evidence that the overall impact of experimentation in a given area depends on the ability to support a wide range of technological experiments (Fleming, 2001; Fleming and Sorenson, 2003).

Relative to the types of experimentation supported in a single established firm, technology entrepreneurs are often able to collectively pursue a more diverse range of technical approaches, and so are able to explore a wider set of potential solutions. In other words, when each individual entrepreneur focuses on an idiosyncratic approach towards a potential technology, the potential to induce a true technology breakthrough is significantly enhanced.

By focusing on the three types of experimentation inherent in the entrepreneurial process — technological, market, and organisational — academic researchers have begun to establish a more rigorous approach to evaluating the role of entrepreneurship in the process of economic growth and prosperity. However, this is more than an academic exercise. This emerging perspective provides useful guidance for both policy makers and practitioners.

For policy purposes, it is important to emphasise that the benefits from programs and policies that support entrepreneurial ventures cannot be counted simply by examining the success stories. An equally important contribution arises from the experimental process itself — by learning about the constraints and challenges in a particular environment, and by placing pressure on more established firms to improve their technology, market position, and organisation.

For practitioners, I close by highlighting perhaps the most fundamental insight from the economic experiments approach: the true value of entrepreneurship arises more from how you set yourself apart from the norm rather than how you conform to it. ■

ENDNOTE  
1 This is an edited extract from Scott Stern 2005, 'Economic Experiments: The Role of Entrepreneurship in Economic Prosperity', Kauffman Foundation Thoughtbook.
