
2025-01-11
i used below during my conversation with jay barney and jeff dotson on intentions
- I've been always curious about how to infer the intention, exposed intention, like, from the story out here, you need to have At least, like three different or repeated instances that shows the intention. And I, like I read, the definition of a serial killer is you need to have at least three victims, and there should have cooling periods between the murders and victims being killed in separate circumstances, because my wife and I watched a lot of British television, and I've concluded that Oxford,  England is the most dangerous city. Not only are there when there's a murder, there's always multiple murders. Yeah. Weird thing. I think this is in general, like some problem in strategy, because expos, you don't know just by observing their action sequences, you don't know the intentions behind them, like so we don't do this in the book, but the implicit story is a significant story. You have to do a if you engage in ⭐️ that are very costly to change, then that signals the commitment to this. So, so in that case, even that BYU example is not huge, because she just takes the best off. But some others are the sort of the canonical story, co author, who's the CEO of a Brazilian telecom regulated market to a deregulated market, going to put the top down, bottom up, and these two series of things are just like, so radical, So confusing, technically insane. So yeah, seems like a hierarchical model a this does not seem rational to me, but that makes me suspect there may be an underlying intention behind it, which is a commitment to this larger cause, great observation,  do a if you engage in hashes that are very costly 
- generator: Kim en-hee
- abstract: 
> [Criminal profiler](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Criminal_profiling "Criminal profiling") Park Hae-young ([Lee Je-hoon](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lee_Je-hoon "Lee Je-hoon")) solves a kidnapping case involving a culprit who apparently disappeared after the crime with a mysterious walkie-talkie he picks up. The success of this case triggers the formation of a long-term cold case team, led by Det. Cha Soo-hyun ([Kim Hye-soo](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kim_Hye-soo "Kim Hye-soo")), who has searched for her long-lost mentor, Det. Lee Jae-han ([Cho Jin-woong](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cho_Jin-woong "Cho Jin-woong")), over the past 15 years. With the help of Jae-han, the person at the other end of the walkie-talkie, Hae-young solves other cold cases that had remained unsolved for years while also helping Jae-han help solve other cases. Unintended consequences due to the changes in the past follow.


- brilliance: fight against consistent injustice by signaling across time and space 
- classification: drama
- diagram: [[signal_poster.png]]
- equation: definition of serial killer is "최소 3명의 피해자가 발견되고, 살인사건 사이에 냉각기가 있어 서로 분리된 상황에서 피해자가 살해된 정황이 확실할때" which can be generalized to pattern (When at least 3 victims are found, and when there are cooling periods between murders, with victims being killed in separate circumstances, and when there is clear evidence of homicide.)