---
created: 2025-11-23
modified:
  - 2025-11-23T08:49:25-05:00
---

- **First Light**: What is on your mind? What is your focus today?
- **Last Light**: What were wins today? What's on tap for tomorrow?

# Freewrite


fit between the triplet {utility, state, action} is optimized jointly inferred oror entangled in entrepreneurial phenomena.

Hey Vikash, may I quickly pick your brain for 30 mins to sync & ask advice?

For starters, I'm available anytime after 2pm this week.

**Chat agenda**

a. your prediction on AI technology progress without your intervention
b. bets you're making 
c. if you were in my situation, which between enhancing the quality of my prediction and making a bet by executing would you focus on?

You should choose the order of the agenda as six of them feel exchangeable to me. Most people think prediction temporarily precedes decision (e.g. prediction-based prescription) but I doubt this sequence. Don't you agree you sometimes make a bet then collect prediction evidence to persuade others? i.e. "leap of faith" reverses the order.

  
------
Situation 1

Demo video from Claude [Accelerating private equity deal flows](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AY3lif2E4zI) surprised me 

  Situation 2

With 95% probability, I'm mastering out. The reward of betting my PhD is experiencing experiment design  with my skin on the game plus finding a topic I can purely enjoy: **commitment and flexibility in entrepreneurship**. Charlie and Scott confirmed this topic is a "lonely frontier" and committed to supporting me writing a master's thesis on it. I'm compiling 400 pages of my experiment documents from 2023. As I communicated with you, your ambidexterity in giving high quality advice on the **substance** and **process** of my research is why I chose you as my committee. I need your help, Vikash!
