---
collection:
- '[[People]]'
field:
- 🐙ops
- 🐢inv
atom: 👓atom(BE🔄)
created: '2024-05-05'
---

Speaker 1  0:00  
What's a brochure that you want to cover? So you can have an effective? We essentially sell on top of Uber. So we're an Uber driver replacement basis. Yes. And where's the technology going to go? What should we be developing? What's the most bang for the buck that will get you into these different regions needs different markets? Over time, the industry has kind of gone through a constriction and said, Oh, we're actually going to expand much slower. So right now, I'm still focused on what should the engineering team be building but it's more about like, Should we be investing heavier in simulation? Should we be going much stronger into pivoting the underlying architectures to use more machine learning or to use this different theory of things, and where should we put money towards to that end?

Speaker 2  0:51  
I do you have any principal way to somehow this sounds like a very high dimensional decision making. And that can include a lot of add a lot of hyper parameters to my model. Yeah, but if I'm a very briefly so I was trying to come up with some examples, and like how this is structured is. So I first define different parameters which is like Doer dynamics, optimism and uncertainty experiments, opportunities and risks. And this is just a very quick cartoon about how the learning happens. And I don't know how realistic this is, but my somehow market and this is a real world and this is a startup so this can be like AV systems how people accept the AV in like San Francisco and New York and Boston. And you expect like three to five range out of like five let's say there, you get a Google star review from your product. And you started with a range of three to five, but actually the you got one. So how does the gap of one and the average of three to five which is for the three is affecting the things that you that ended up with the predictions in the first place? So we decompose how this prediction came upon and it is competition off the market is changing and our optimistic between the real and our market acceptance level? And also the ratio of your uncertainty. So the learning the three gap is somehow we need a principled way to update our learning in order to somehow prepare the next market. This was New York, but the example I'm building is you're starting from an Eevee in a rural market, but you can there isn't any there isn't much Evie infrastructure, for instance, in rural so you somehow wants to pivot in other like eight quadrants, but in what order or like, yeah, whether you should change the market or whether you should change the product, like you said, like architecture, but so I expect there to be it's not. This is very simple, if my model so this is like market and product but product can have also the hierarchy of trees. So I'm curious about that aspect.

Speaker 1  3:38  
Yes. So when you look at the autonomous vehicle market, in a lot of cases, like I remember from the link that you sent me you had the the little tree going down in China. And it was interesting because you put us as manufacturers, but in a lot of ways we're really selling a service is the goal. Like I'm not trying to make an autonomous vehicle that I sell, like, you know, that somebody down there buys, it's that I have a fleet that I run and I provide a service to people within that city through Uber or Lyft or anything else. And for even when you talk about the the trucking plays, which I'm sure Matt could have told you a lot about we stack, you know that they're often selling the shipping service itself, the transportation network, more than it's the manufacturing because you're never going to get better at manufacturing than the big OEMs for automotive or as Tesla's kind of learning now. It's why like, we're heavily invested in by him died because he and I is our base for creating the vehicles and everything else. But we put the software in the sort of sensor configuration everything else on it, so it's uh our value proposition is not from being really good at building the thing. It's from, well, you could argue the like software stack, but the way that we're intending to make money is by selling a service this

Speaker 2  5:05  
is the way I saw her engagement into the conversation was I was curious whether between the hardware versus software house turtle operations should differ. So the reason I classify a V and E V to more into manufacturing is compared to like Uber or ride hailing serve. Yeah, you need to like because Matt also said software is important, but he thinks hardware is one thing that can go wrong

Speaker 1  5:33  
very much. Oh, very knowing his job and what he does he deals with when the hardware goes wrong, but it's really both in with autonomous vehicles specifically, were like reliant on a network. Like we're not building all of our own things. We're integrating a bunch of them. So we're reliant on a lidar startup market that is going to do well enough whether it's OSI or velodyne or whoever else. They have to get good enough to meet what we need and we need you know, hammer manufacturers at a low enough price and compute that is both able to deal with all the sort of noise vibration and harshness of the road but then also provided like a server worth of power and

Speaker 2  6:16  
so it's, do you have something like the software that says, if we cross this threshold that is like we can go forward? Like, for instance, you gave different examples like cameras should be tripping up and radar should be wiping off like all the maturity of the technology how do you keep track of all that?

Speaker 1  6:38  
So at any given time, it's not that we're tracking different things. It's we look at what's on the market right now and what companies are selling us and telling us that they're going to do and we're saying what is the best option that we have? And then it's just a price versus effectiveness comparison where the engineers argue with the finance people and say our job would be easier if you give us better equipment. And the finance people say we'll never make money if you get the best of everything and the to try and find the right medium but the autonomous vehicle space is sort of paradoxical among startups, because making money is such a late stage part of things like even Uber Lyft burned money for a long time and it was finally making money, but even during that time, they were generating real revenue and they could show scaling of that. For us, it's you have to have a completed product to start doing things. And like yes, you can then update its operational design domain and make it able to go you know, from dealing with Las Vegas to Los Angeles to San Francisco or Boston, but the the baseline of safety is so high because the regulatory environment is so it's not the regulatory environment. It's we are in a safety critical industry. And if we do something wrong, it tends to sync everything very quickly. Yeah,

Speaker 2  8:03  
yeah. But isn't there like different options to make money like for instance, in biotech, because clinical trial takes 15 years they have option to either IPO or m&a Like do you does start up an Eevee has that option. That's certainly

Speaker 1  8:18  
was the case. So if you look so I started in the industry in 2018. And that was right after GM had bought Cruz for like a billion dollars. And what they bought was a demo. Like it was a concept of what it could be, but I don't know that it was worth a billion dollars. And Uber ATG was worth a lot and way Mo has always just sort of been the Study leader. In the space. And it may mobility we looked at different options for but if you look there was Spax and IPOs and 2020 and 2021. Too simple and embark come to mind.

Unknown Speaker  8:55  
What is in park sorry, embark

Speaker 1  8:57  
trucks is another trucking play. Yeah. But all of them once they went public. That was their burn like they could no longer get access to capital as easily on the private market. They and a lot of them have failed because of it now and have gone under because they couldn't keep burning. You know, often it's 250 million to a billion a year of burn rate for a lot of these companies. And they they can't keep it off long enough to actually get to a viable product. And there's just a limited number of institutional investors like the young guys in GMs. And Google and Amazon are really the ones who are have big plays right now. who are willing to do it because they see the long term value of it, but they're accepting that they're gonna throw I don't know, I'm making up this number, but 10 million or 15 billion down the drain before they get that and not a lot of

Unknown Speaker  9:55  
being the final part of AV

Speaker 1  9:59  
a safe integrated tech stack that can scale with profit like and it's different in different markets, right? You see a lot of Chinese tech stocks or companies like pony AI and similar, which are going to market much quicker and much cheaper. And the general belief in the industry is the Chinese government doesn't actually care if they kill a few people, and it's not going to make major news. And so they can afford to do it and it's just cost of doing business but you kill and I'm not saying this is wrong. You kill a single person in the US. That's like

Speaker 2  10:42  
yeah, actually, biotech is also borrowing some data from China. It's fast, and it's a clinical trial. Oh,

Unknown Speaker  10:52  
that's a little bit concerning.

Speaker 1  10:56  
I think a similar thing there have they're able to move much faster because it's a very different view on what your tolerance is for accidents. Um,

Speaker 2  11:09  
I see. So I guess maybe we can go through different examples of like quanta and please let me know if this doesn't make sense at all. This is what GPT helped me with. A lot. So the framework is the first column is when the dynamic market, the market becomes more dynamic. Okay, start off fixed product and accelerate market change. So in this example, it's more like this direction. Yep. I have so great. Now you can imagine what are examples that can be you have a great faith in your innovative technology and you cannot make like hybrid or ice so you're going to change the market once you get a bad review. Or like your dad is a minister in some rural area. So you have a great sentiment in the rural market. And you wouldn't, you'd very easily change your product. So some combinations of like that. Um, so, I guess, like, so this part is the reasoning for why this whole like there are several literature's somehow justifying them but I didn't include in this table like I just wanted to go over and examples. So Tesla when they fix electric car and somehow change the market from luxury to commercial fleet, do you think that's okay, for that? That

Speaker 1  12:37  
makes sense. Yeah, they sort of moved to a cheaper customer base there. I think the similar thing within the AV industry is do you know if I say like level two or three or four autonomy a little bit, but what's the like main difference okay, so, level four autonomy is like what my company currently works on, which is the car drives itself. There does not have to be human inside at all the human could be asleep or drunk or anything like that. The human gets no control. The car does everything.

Speaker 2  13:07  
Is that what Apple gave up? That's what they gave up trying.

Speaker 1  13:11  
levels, zero through three are different levels of the human has some amount of control. So the ones of interest usually are level two, which is the car is keep or is doing things and the human is always responsible and the human has to be perfectly attentive. That's several. Yeah, so like adaptive cruise control, where the car might slow itself down when it gets too close to something and speed itself up put it has space, but the if the car gets into an accident, the human is 100% responsible. Level three is saying the really the manufacturer takes some responsibility where it says there must be a human there, and the car will tell the human when they need to take over and give it you know, a two or three second view of Hey, you gotta you gotta be there. But the car is actually responsible for its own actions during that time. So they didn't see in level two and level three in a lot of ways is who is legally culpable.

Speaker 2  14:10  
In level three, if human is uncontrolled is human,

Speaker 1  14:13  
always but if you engage the system, you hit the button. In theory, you could be looking elsewhere. And then if you hear you know ding ding, ding, ding, ding. You got to look forward, grab the wheel and go. So different systems have set this up differently, but Mercedes has done this I've like there's some highways that you can, can drive. Okay. But the the point that I'm getting to here is what you've seen is a lot of the autonomous vehicle companies that really targeted level four where it was you know, Robo taxi, full self driving whatever, have gone down to level three or level two plays. So Ford used to have a company called Argo AI. They dissolved that and instead created a company called latitude with the same engineers in the same IP. Except for people like Matt who went to staff but that's a whole different story. And basically oriented themselves as a level three autonomy company entirely. And so no longer trying to do that Robo taxi are completely driving itself thing but instead getting to I'm going to create an add on to a consumer vehicle. So when you go buy a Lincoln or you go buy, you know, whatever car you pay an extra $5,000 To get this feature on it. And then you're not having to scale your own operations or anything else. You're changing the product that you're offering, but you're using a lot of the same underlying technology. I see. Yes. So that would be the market is dynamic. So you fix your products, but change the market that you're applying it to and the market has become dynamic because sentiment is fairly low and the cash flows or the cash flow is tamping down so it's a lot harder to get access to capital. So let's go do something that makes us money now rather than something that makes us money

Speaker 2  16:08  
is somehow the sentiment is low, because transportation startup in general is going through a hard time. I heard after COVID the cash somehow flew out. I think

Speaker 1  16:20  
it's because well, it's a because interest rates are higher and so there's a lot less just venture capital in the market. I think it's also the industry reflecting that it actually is going to take a long time to get there. And the cost of having an accident limits you're scaling so much. And so because it's so hard to scale, it's easier to pick up. Like even way Moe who's way ahead of everybody else. Winning right now is moving at a snail's pace compared to what everybody seems to think they can do. And it's because they want to build acceptance in the market and they have the time and money to burn. But crews did the opposite GM splay where they expanded rapidly and really fast and burned a bunch of goodwill because they were causing traffic delays and jams and they were driving into pavement wet pavement and they were driving into active fire department scenes and stuff. And then when they I don't know if you're familiar with the incident back in October where like a human driven car hit a pedestrian and shoved it under the cruise car. And then the cruise car actually dragged it for a while. Okay for like 20 feet that like shut them down as a company for months. They're just barely getting back now. But you know, they last six months. Every one of their executives got fired. A number of them are under, like court orders and under investigation. And so it's a very different scene because there's that risk of trying to expand but without expanding you can't make money. What

Speaker 2  18:05  
do you mean by the cruise and the way Moe have different strategy

Speaker 1  18:15  
Wei mo doesn't care about how much money it spends I they do a little bit now but it's partially because they've solved the problem for a long time they were alphabet would give them as much money as they needed. Almost carp launch and they hired the best people. They ran gigantic experiments, I mean, huge scales of things and sometimes like they they literally launched a service in 2019 and then went and said, actually no this is wrong. We're gonna go rebuild everything and then we're going to relaunch in San Francisco and oh, oh,

Speaker 2  18:47  
that is so he explains this because they had a lot of like experiment opportunity. Yes. Like spin X SFM. But they

Speaker 1  18:57  
were able to do it because they had the cash flow to support them doing it. And each time they did it, it wasn't Oh, now you have to go to the next thing quickly. It's okay, go take what you learned. Go build all of the infrastructure that you need, and go do the next thing better. Whereas every other player in the space that hasn't had that sheer abundance of cash and time has been under pressure of deliver now. And it's like, okay, well, here's the next thing that we can do and the next thing and the next thing but they're small jumps because they can't sit back and go Oh no, what I actually have to do is go build a whole new thing of simulation. And I have to go build a whole new architecture to approach this. And then I'm going to have something that's 10 times better, and you get this giant step function. Instead they're being asked to do these continual steps up but it goes much slower. Because they're doing that. So

Speaker 2  19:48  
where does this like step increase comes from? By running parallel experiments.

Speaker 1  19:57  
It's somewhat parallel experiments, but it's also somewhat investing in doing things right and being willing to I guess it can be even considered experiments like, totally reset, the approach that you're taking, so in a way, most cases it's how is their like software stack architected entirely but it's also what are all of the things around it so that I make a change how do I make sure that it's safe and valid and everything else? And if you have that it becomes really easy, you know, I, my friends are way more like, yeah, on Friday afternoon, I can make a change and then I can hit a button and it'll run over the weekend. And on Monday, I come in and I have this nice printout that says here's everything that improved here's everything that degrade. But motional company that I work for, doesn't have that architecture and so instead I make a change. I can run a few simulations, but I really have to go and ask somebody to put this on a real vehicle of which there's, you know, 50 that we have access to and drive that vehicle. around for a while. And give me the data and feedback from that. And then I can tell where it's good and it's much more ice capital intensive and time intensive to do so. So

Speaker 2  21:08  
Waymo they have a simulation machine or do they actually run to

Speaker 1  21:13  
they have both but they have an incredibly advanced simulation suite like they estimates put them in having spent like two to $4 billion just on simulation. And all of their server prices are at cost because it's Google.

Speaker 2  21:30  
Yeah, I think I read a book that explains their different levels of innovations. Yeah, like system level. Innovation is like what Wayne was doing. It's hard on you. Yeah, but other people are doing like application level innovation, right?

Speaker 1  21:44  
And it's okay, well, we'll change this and we'll tweak that and we'll do this and it works and it shows consistent progress, but that consistent progress is a lot slower than if you're able to change the underlying system. And what they're really doing is investing in something that makes their consistent progress faster. Instead of having your steps be like this, suddenly they're like that, because you've invested in something that allows you to do that.

Speaker 2  22:09  
And the other startups that needs to demonstrate consistent improvement is to get investment.

Speaker 1  22:16  
Yeah. So that's you, you talk about market. And there's a weird backwards thing where for us it's less about the public market of who we're selling to and it's more about can you find somebody willing giving you money? Yeah. Because once we achieved the thing, in theory, then we just go to somebody and say, I have a product. I need this much money to build cars and buy warehouses, and that's it. And that's a very easy sell because there's a very clear business case, but because we're in such an r&d space, we have to be convincing somebody that eventually we'll get to that point, and it will be worth investing now, versus when we talked about the level three pivot. If you're building level three autonomous systems, it's actually much easier. You can just go and say, you know, I'm going to put this out in 2025. And it will go on every Ford vehicle. And there's my profit is every one of these cars will have this technology on it. They produce however many 10s or hundreds of 1000s of vehicles a year that have this. I'm selling it for 50 bucks or 100 bucks or whatever it is per unit.

Speaker 2  23:26  
So you're seeing level four is more early stage technology. So compared to level two, which is level two or three, which is more like mass market, yes. That's more tangible markets out there. That's very interesting that like biotech explanation I got and your explanation somehow has some corresponding components. That

Speaker 1  23:48  
make sense here because we're both dealing with such like, well, they have really formal regulation. The problem with us is almost that we don't have regulation. We're in an environment where every state does things slightly differently. And you really just get when you go too far, you get taken down. But there's not consistent laws to guide you on what you're doing. You know, Texas has a one paragraph regulation. That just says Come here. Let's do it. California has literally like this thick. It's printed out like a book of exactly what you have to do with every step and what you have to show. And there's something nice about the California approach except it's very expensive. To get through.

Speaker 2  24:36  
Where was the accident taken? Place?

Unknown Speaker  24:39  
In San Francisco, I believe.

Speaker 2  24:43  
Okay, um, this is very helpful. Thanks. Yeah. And this is fixed market it when the market becomes more dynamic and change the product. So I don't know both of the companies but maybe your choice of what example is better might be helpful.

Unknown Speaker  25:05  
When you say clock speed of market environment,

Speaker 2  25:07  
oh, this is my advisors. Book. Oh, gotcha saying each industry has the rate of change. Okay, so you can imagine pharmaceuticals much more slower. Yeah, it industry. Okay. So, like, imagine you're pivoting with like GPT technology from pharmaceutical to it. Then you should adjust to the industry's coffee. Okay. I'm just seeing how fast it is. This product

Unknown Speaker  25:46  
okay

Speaker 1  25:55  
are both these supposed to be as it becomes dynamic or these?

Speaker 2  25:58  
These are like, incompatible theories, okay, because one thing like we should external pivot, meaning it's so. So assumption here is our product is more under control than to the market like imagine this as an agent in an environment. If you're changing market, you're changing your environment. But if you're changing your product, you're changing something policy or whatever within an agent. So that's why I'm calling an internal pivot and external pivots. I see. Yeah.

Speaker 1  26:37  
I see. So this is saying I'm going to keep focusing on the luxury people, but I'm going to change when I'm offering them versus I'm going to fix the fact that I'm building electric cars. And I'm going to change which market I'm in. Okay. Yes.

Speaker 2  26:55  
So just to be clear, the reason I'm collecting this example is usually an entrepreneur strategy. They just choose one example and use it to justify their argument. But my point is, this case study is to there are some selection bias in there. And so we need to, what I'm trying to come up with is examples that supports both conflicting thing in order to criticize the current theories I say.

Unknown Speaker  27:37  
I mean, I see the validity of both I think that there's

Unknown Speaker  27:42  
this new Evie company they

Speaker 1  27:44  
are Yeah, they're I think Chinese electric vehicle play. But I don't know much about the details of their work. So I can't tell you whether that's how

Speaker 2  27:56  
much is Eevee market related to AV markets.

Speaker 1  28:02  
We like working on EVs because they simplify a lot of problems for us. They're lower maintenance, they're easier control because there's no like go and stop become simplified, because it's you're not running an engine or anything. You're literally just run the battery or recharge the battery. And then you can add braking if you want. And they all have what's called drive by wire built in. So the pedals can be replaced with a machine. But these days, they aren't as interconnected as actual spaces. We just use them as a supplier

Speaker 2  28:44  
if you're me who wants to somehow create some like consistent choice of industry across this five examples? Would you choose Eevee market or AV market?

Speaker 1  28:58  
I think you would have a lot more details you can find on the Eevee market because it's a lot more mature. And if you were doing the AV market I don't think you should look at it as pivoting between cities. But as your market change being to go from, you know, level four to level three. I think that that's a much more like

Speaker 2  29:16  
b2b to b2c. Right? b2b B Yes. Yes.

Speaker 1  29:23  
And well, yeah, level four would be sort of a b2c thing and level three,

Speaker 2  29:32  
level four. I think it's b2b Because only you're looking for the investors.

Speaker 1  29:36  
Well, so the oh I see because you're, so typically when you're selling a level three product you're not selling like I don't sell it to you. I sell it to Ford or GM or GM die, and they then go integrated and sell it to somebody else. So we become a supplier to that business. Rather than us trying to directly sell

Speaker 2  29:56  
but for like, level four, like who are the buyers. In

Speaker 1  30:02  
theory, we sell a service on the Uber network, and we share the profit of that with Uber from the customers. Or even like way, Moe is to some extent doing their own thing with way mo one where it doesn't involve any of Uber as the middleman but at this stage in the industry, you're right, you could just consider that we're really selling to venture capital or to investors. And we're not selling a real product right?

Speaker 2  30:32  
Yeah. Yeah. That was like the biotech m&a seat. Yeah. It's very

Speaker 1  30:39  
much that and I think, maybe to support it, because the market has changed. There's a lot less startups in the space that are trying to get acquired because nobody is looking to acquire these companies anymore.

Speaker 2  30:51  
I'm sorry. It decreased because of investor decreased.

Speaker 1  30:56  
There were tons of autonomous vehicle startups in like 2016 2017 2018 2019. And then they all just started dying. And part of it was all of the major players that weren't just investors, but were actually like, institutions that had a reason like Amazon wants to automate their deliveries and Ford wanted to you know, build out the car business in different ways as the GM and GM die and alphabets alphabet they do whatever the hell they do, they have too much money. It's got a trip. I agree. But each of those has a good reason to be it whereas like the first investors that we had at May mobility, were just like, angel investors who thought that they'd make money off of it. And the second round of investors that we got were, you know, mildly aligned to the transportation space, but really, were just, you know, private equity that wanted to buy this and figured they could sell it later. But then when you look at the rounds, the mobility got afterwards it was Toyota. It was SoftBank. It was essentially Japanese I bought so I guess the Korean word would be chaebol chip on. Chip. What's the you said? You made your startup in Korea before? Yeah. The like Samsung and Hyundai like giant companies that have like terrifying amounts of power.

Unknown Speaker  32:31  
Yeah, Turbo. Okay. Yeah, you're crazy. I'm

Speaker 3  32:35  
sorry. My pronunciation is awful. But some fries you knew that word? Well, I

Unknown Speaker  32:40  
worked for I essentially so.

Speaker 2  32:43  
One advisor is a guardian of the project for Evie architecture for Hyundai. Oh, really. So one researcher from Hyundai is in here and he mentioned emotional several times. Do you know him like him? Gentlemen, gentlemen, Kim.

Unknown Speaker  33:02  
Can you spell out his name Britain or show me on LinkedIn that you can

Unknown Speaker  33:23  
so he doesn't have.

Unknown Speaker  33:49  
Oh, I think he's not about that. But he does a lot of AV as well.

Unknown Speaker  34:22  
Yeah, maybe I'll follow up on that later. But yeah.

Speaker 1  34:27  
I work with a decent number of we have like scicon ds, and then we also just have I do a lot of the tech demonstrations that company does. So I interact with a number of people who've come through but I don't know whether I know this person

Speaker 2  34:47  
so we were in here and um, so when you say Evie market is more mature like in terms of numbers of startup or more stable and less risky,

Speaker 1  35:02  
they have a product out of the road. The product has a proven market fit. And I don't even know if they're startups anymore. In a lot of cases like Tesla is trying to become an OEM Shaddai is definitely not a startup that has a large TV program. Ford is struggling with theirs but has one as well and you know in a lot of ways, it's no longer a startup market. It's become a mature market. Libyans maybe still start off in that space. Because they're not profitable.

Speaker 2  35:34  
I didn't know that. Oh, yeah, losing.

Speaker 1  35:37  
An old boss of mine is one of their VPS now they're losing like $30,000 trucks that they make

Speaker 2  35:43  
thing do like from amazon for Amazon. I don't know what the

Speaker 1  35:47  
Amazon ones but I know the consumer trucks that they build, lose money on everyone and they're like, we can't scale out of this issue. We're going to you know, just increase our burn rate but hopefully they'll figure out how to make them cheaper. But then there is like the Chinese automotive market has a lot more startup B things because they've got a very different environment that they're operating in and people are more willing to accept lower range and less safety. Features and the cars can then be lighter and have all these other things. But but the electric vehicle market you just have, like Tesla has multiple products. They've got the Model S and X, Y and X and three and everything and the cybertruck which is horrible, but you know rivian has multiple trucks out when you look at the autonomous vehicle companies like they're trying to create a platform. Some of them have tried to go between trucking and Robo taxi but most have given up on that and decided they're one or the other. And they're trying to get the first product out to market in a scalable way. And you could talk about oh, they're trying to get it into different markets of you know, different cities and everything. Else. But that's really scaling the same product. The only pivot that you can do is down to level three or over to trucking

Unknown Speaker  37:19  
or to Trucking is that the market pivot?

Speaker 1  37:23  
It's a very different one. So if you're building a robo taxi, I don't if I build one for Boston I really only need to operate it in Boston. I don't need to go to Wooster. I don't need to go to limb, you know, I can stay within this area, which means I can stay below 45 miles an hour. A lot of the time I can build for very dense urban environments. But if you're doing trucking you're doing highways. And you're doing you know, very high speed but very controlled environment without you know there's not pedestrians jumping out there's not you have to deal with deer and yeah, but it's a different set of things that you have to handle. Okay,

Speaker 2  38:05  
that's very helpful. Maybe I would look more into the Eevee. But I guess the framework is somewhat similar. Like Yeah, it did because this was the like the table I share you personally. But once I nail this structure within one industry, I think I can transfer that structure into other industries as well. So I will start from here, but maybe later I can follow allow me to follow up with application to ABS Yeah. Because it's better to start with a large data when you're building the structure. First. So like evaders. So the second one is about, let's say, let's imagine two versions of Elon Musk, very pessimistic versus very, like optimistic. Sure, and how that would affect the product versus market change and optimism is defined by startups belief on his average product being accepted in the average market. So it's like not there isn't there hasn't been any market segment happened yet.

Speaker 1  39:09  
So so like Will people buy electric vehicles? yes, across like

Speaker 2  39:13  
rural, suburban, urban. okay. And within each, maybe there could be some variance, but here it's like in general I have some solution. Will this be accepted or not, I

Speaker 1  39:25  
mean I feel strongly that if you. Jack, you don't need to change your product, you just need to increase your market. So it's not even change market. It's expanding market, right? And if you're pessimistic, then you might be more likely to change your product. Because you're saying people don't like this thing that I'm doing. I'll do something else.

Speaker 2  39:48  
Like you brought up a good point, I don't know how to differentiate, expanding the market versus pivoting the market.

Speaker 1  39:56  
Yeah. Because pivoting would imply that you're dropping your old stuff, whereas expanding just means when we do more, I think my sense is optimism would say I should expand and not drop anything. Whereas pessimism should say that I need to invest the resources that I have in one thing, and that may mean dropping it. So it's a widening versus a redirecting.

Speaker 2  40:21  
So pessimistic in this case is like you don't have much confidence in your product. It's not I mean, it's like product market fit. So that can pan out to either update your product or update your market. But like you said, if I'm very confident then I will want to expand and

Speaker 1  40:42  
maybe I don't know if this works within your modeling, but maybe optimism says that I will expand both my product and market and pessimism says that I will pivot both my product and market or one or you know, some combination of them. Yeah, that makes sense. But it's you said you talked about this and you're saying you move, but it can also be like you expand you

Speaker 2  41:05  
stretch. So the logic of the pessimist. Pessimism is like I need to focus in order to at least get the chance of having a product market fit.

Speaker 1  41:15  
Yeah, I need to show that I have something successful.

Speaker 2  41:20  
So there exists instead of like every market, product fit will work.

Speaker 1  41:25  
Yeah, like if you're optimistic, you have the money, whatever else you'll go for the bigger shots. You're struggling. It's not the same.

Speaker 2  41:35  
I see. That makes sense. So burn, so I'm not fully satisfied with this examples. But I'm fix scooter sharing and update the market into university to silliness.

Speaker 1  41:50  
But that's broadening right like cities contain universities.

Unknown Speaker  41:54  
Okay?

Speaker 1  41:55  
You're You're broadening what you're targeting ICAC

Speaker 2  42:00  
Faraday Do you know this company? You're really an expert in this transportation. Yeah, I think this aligns with Cirrus Logic which I really like and more pessimists. I mean, this is more optimistic. And it's changing. I guess I will update the two theories into what you suggested. I think that's better because this optimism is both the function of market and the product.

Speaker 1  42:32  
Because because I do think that it's saying, like you're saying what is more optimism, but it's not what is less optimism. And so how do you define the pessimism as well in there?

Speaker 1  42:52  
But But I don't think optimism by itself is going to tell you whether you're going to focus more on market or Yeah, product. It just says that you're going to do more or less. That's a good

Speaker 2  43:01  
point because this is a factor. And we can either use Euclidean coordinate or like the radial coordinate, meaning if we're using Euclidean it's like the the speed and speed of either market and the product chain, whereas we're using radio is like the degree right?

Speaker 1  43:20  
Yeah. So I think that if you do radio, your radius is determined by optimism. But the well it's not necessarily radius because you could make a big jump if you're doing a pivot. But you're not holding on to your old part. When you're doing it. You're really viscosity. Yeah. I don't know how to mathematically model. Like, do you

Speaker 2  43:54  
spread out? Like really vary, okay. Yeah, another coordinate added, but I think that's very reasonable. Um, the next one is, I think this is more between market versus product. Because, yeah, so optimism is both like it's a function of both but this is like the function of a ratio. So if you have higher uncertainty a market compared to a product than fixed product and change the market, so I thought this was more like a thinkers mindset, where they interpret in uncertainty as noise, which they want to avoid, but the doer mindset, and sometimes the higher uncertainty means that I have opportunities in there, so I want to explore that. Yeah. So that's like, more related to how you interpret uncertainty, because one interview mentioned the startup interview I had was you should somehow balance the uncertainty in a product side and the market side because if they are too wide gap between the two is not a good thing.

Speaker 1  45:06  
Yeah. If you're too committed to one or the other. Yeah, so

Speaker 2  45:09  
maybe this ratio around one that would be like, meaning if certain ratio uncertainty became very low, lowered in market, then you would counteract that event by lowering your technology, uncertainty. So for instance, let's say they're one of the cities for AV accepted, they were going to like build the infrastructure for your company. Then I guess if I were you, my reaction would be well, I should really work on this technology. So that because I have opportunity and the uncertainty for market acceptance got really lowered right. So that kind of thing is what I was trying to represent uncertainty. So better place the battery swapping update the market from San Francisco writer to the EU consumer. Um, you know, this example I

Speaker 1  46:12  
don't know, unfortunately. I do know Zooks. While I was on this flight, they didn't just update the market from Mountain View to San Francisco. They also expanded to Las Vegas.

Speaker 2  46:22  
So was there they weren't on a pivot or expansion.

Speaker 1  46:27  
I think that it is a pure expansion but I don't follow their day to day as much. But they they're trying to scale out the like all of us have the goal of trying to cover every city in the US try and get all of that stuff and maybe then cities elsewhere as well. It's just how fast are you trying to do that? Because the product we have is a sort of fix. You know you to give you a concept. If you get an Uber Yeah. And it pulls up and it's a you know, Escalade versus Ford Taurus. or whatever else. Like you don't think that much about which card is you don't spend that much time concerned. You get in the car, you go to the place and then you get out. Like we're all concerned more about where you can go. So if I told you I can go from here to Brookline great, but if you really want to be going to Lin that's not useful to you, or Eesti or whatever else and so it's can we cover the area that you want?

Speaker 2  47:31  
Um, so like what is the benefits of different in cities? Like, is there any like principle order to

Speaker 1  47:41  
explore is essentially three factors when you're considering studies. Okay. The first is regulatory environment, how much of a pain is it going to be to go there? Will the government shut you down?

Speaker 2  47:51  
And you mentioned California is much higher than the Texas or Florida has

Speaker 1  47:56  
a really high bar, but it's very defined. Okay. Texas has no bar, but could randomly impose one. So they probably won't because they're Texas, okay, like Illinois doesn't have anything written down. And so it could change at any time and so you don't want to invest in Chicago because that would be there. But so there's regulatory environment. There's operational design domain, which is what are the features in the city so Boston has these crazy intersections and these very thin roads. The drivers are all terrible. They're very good. They're just assholes. Whereas if you go to San Diego, the roads are really wide, they're all at right angles and all the drivers are a lot more chill, okay. So, operational design domain is what is the complexity of the environment and what is the work you can also include whether there was snow and rain and all of that is an issue. And then the third is revenue. So I see if you go to New York, you can get about 25% of the total rideshare market in the US, just New York. New York has other issues. There's reasons people are there, most of them are regulatory. On the flip side, you can go to Miami and Miami has a decent market but it's also a really saturated market. There's a lot of Uber drivers there already. And so prices are naturally lower, or payment for a ride is naturally lower. Uber gets more money, drivers do not. And so we're tapped into the rideshare economics of who is willing to pay for them. And how much are you getting?

Speaker 2  49:42  
I always thought that AVS customer is just people who buys a car but I was surprised that Uber is the main customer.

Speaker 1  49:51  
So the car itself I mean, right now, the car costs. I think the lowest in the industry is around $80,000 and the highest is around a million or so to build inch. But more than that, it has a bunch of these delicate sensors and everything else which needs to be calibrated and tuned and things go wrong and you need to make sure the car has maintenance and like I don't trust the average consumer to change their oil every six months. How am I trusting you with this giant robot that you have to maintain and so we're really not looking to sell to them but until we have a product that is so simple that you can't fuck it.

Unknown Speaker  50:32  
Over Robo taxi is actually in service in some

Speaker 1  50:35  
place. This is literally our car. This is the thing that I work on emotional. I

Speaker 2  50:39  
Like You I only thought Yeah, that's a nice car. Yeah,

Speaker 1  50:42  
great. So like this is you know, they built the car but we tell them which sensors to put on and design the way it's closed and everything else. Versus Uber has also partnered with way Mo and so there's the way Moe car they're doing.

Speaker 2  50:55  
And motional has been in like how many cities

Speaker 1  50:59  
in Las Vegas and in Los Angeles with commercial operations. But then we also do testing in Singapore in Pittsburgh and until recently here in Boston, but in all of those we've had a human behind the wheel. So you're not make like it's really a research phase. We're not making money because even if we're collecting fares there's still a person

Speaker 2  51:25  
have you been to Singapore like not I really want to get you don't want to get no I very much want to yeah they have a very cool factory like innovation factory. Yeah, I've been to Singapore like last winter.

Speaker 1  51:40  
Yeah, I for the unveiling of you're talking about the HM gifts. Yeah. I was in charge of the demo that was there but they wouldn't fly. me out. I was like taking all the late night calls and I want the city I want food like yeah, I it's high on my list of places to go.

Speaker 2  52:02  
Yeah, let me know if you're like going there. Yeah, well, um, so I guess this part is about fix the market and change the product if you have a high uncertainty. So blink charging had a they, even though Evie charging was very uncertain. They fixed this market and updated a product. That's that's like makes sense.

Speaker 1  52:31  
Both of these makes sense. i The more you talk about this, the more I think that in a lot of cases these numbers being hired doesn't necessarily go between which whether it's product or market. It's how much you're willing to move and how much you're willing to keep up the old as you do it. Like if you're more optimistic, you're more willing to broaden your market and your product potential. And if you're more uncertain, you are

Speaker 2  53:00  
I don't actually know. I agree with you for no optimism but uncertainty ratio is actually the ratio of the market versus product I say okay, so it's more like angle.

Unknown Speaker  53:11  
So if you're more uncertain on the market

Speaker 1  53:19  
but it's which lover do you say that you want to dive really deep into that market? And so then you're gonna change your product or? I don't know I see both hypotheses as possible in different situations.

Speaker 2  53:29  
I somehow like view them as risk takers. Like there is the market is changing very fast, even though I don't know much. I think if I evolve fast enough, I will have enough opportunity. Because EV is changing fast. So we're gonna do whatever it takes. So, how to model this in how people process this as lack of like, it's sigma the same thing is modeled as a sigma, but some people perceive as opportunity versus other people view as a risk that needs to be avoided. So it's, I don't know how to sum how before different people think about this, like for instance, in your case, let's say so for some reason, the AV market variance became very high like whoa be your

Unknown Speaker  54:17  
response. When you say variance. What do you mean?

Speaker 2  54:21  
I was talking in terms of like a mathematical model in terms of their you don't like the future became very unclear and unclear, not necessarily mean it's like for too bad.

Speaker 1  54:31  
Yeah. So in that case people have when uncertainty has gotten higher, the most likely thing that I've seen is, well, it's hard because for the AV industry, changing market and changing product are often intertwined. So like if you go to level three, you're changing the market you're selling to, you're now selling to OEMs, and you're changing the product that you have, and what you're outputting Yeah, yeah. But maybe to give you a closer example, when California had this incident with crews and they they came down really hard. On crews. What happened is a lot of companies in the space said I'm gonna stop investing in California and I'm gonna go switch markets, take the same product and bring it I'm gonna focus more on Las Vegas or I'm gonna focus more in Miami or so in that case, uncertainty became high on the market specifically,

Speaker 2  55:26  
and it's this sign right change the market fixed market. I agree to your comment that everything is intertwined. So that's why the Business Model Generation book had this Epicenter meaning everything eventually has to change but like which is the first place that changes or there is a product and then it product affects the market change, or is it like first market change and effects product? Because let's say in your example, they went to the Last Vegas, and that would affect a product as well because their climates are different and they're like regulations are different. So eventually, we'll change a lot. But

Speaker 1  56:04  
yeah, but you're you're trying to build the product so that it's scalable between things in the AV industry, and so you're looking to like glom on now, I can do this as well. But you're always going to put some amount of effort into developing the, the product it's just whether you're targeting it towards different markets, like it's not. If you're saying talking about changing market as changing where you're advertising. It doesn't work as well for the EVM or for AV industry.

Speaker 2  56:33  
So your point was changing the city is not equal to change in the market, right?

Speaker 1  56:38  
No, I'm saying tuning in the city is changing the market. It's not changing the product. Oh, yeah. We're fixing product and changing

Speaker 2  56:44  
market. I see. So like, Isn't there any product feature that should address certain local weather or climate Yes, like snowing roads, right?

Speaker 1  56:57  
Yes. But that's where it gets weird because you can't disentangle market and product a lot of the time if you're just talking about staying within level four, but in a lot of cases, it's we always intend to build all of these things. But which things am I building this year is this smaller list and so I'm going to focus it towards Las Vegas as a market because Nevada is friendly in a regulatory sense, or I'm going to focus on California as a market because there's a lot more demand there. I see. I don't know that I'm actually answering your question, but

Speaker 2  57:30  
so I was a little eluding that chose Choice of the market would eventually affect your product as well a little because needs would be different. And need and solutions are always appear so that even though eventually you would end up developing a full stack.

Speaker 1  57:49  
You can say it as both. But in a lot of cases, it's we're trying to build the same. There are some features that would be different, but I think the fundamental product that we're offering is the same it's just in a different market. And you may be doing market specific optimizations, but I

Speaker 2  58:09  
got it got it. Um, I guess due to time, maybe, thanks. Experiment opportunity. This is like have a lot of resources.

Speaker 1  58:21  
Yeah, it's very much the more nav it's the more money you have, the more you're able to well wait you're saying

Speaker 1  58:38  
I don't know that. I agree that that's the way that way mo experiment. works by do is fix it.

Speaker 2  59:09  
So like intuitively, the way I think about this is like technical technology push this is more customer pool it's a constant like a whim and example of this in sentences for the last 10 years. Most of the successful company was technology push like a

Speaker 1  59:30  
product Yeah, I I think experiment opportunity gives you technology push and the less that you have the more you have

Speaker 2  59:38  
to adjust for the car. Yeah, that's why I thought because system level innovation, you need a lot of confidence and push in order to somehow make that happen. Yeah. So you need some period not to care about the market needs and develop that's why I think what you mentioned about Waymo having the period of time to develop your simulation model and all that I do a polo

Speaker 1  1:00:10  
I'm not as familiar with Baidu other than they are one of the Chinese plays and

Speaker 2  1:00:15  
it's an Eevee company or AV company. So

Speaker 1  1:00:18  
Baidu itself is basically Google for China. Baidu has an autonomous vehicle division, similar to what Wei Mo is for alphabet.

Unknown Speaker  1:00:30  
Oh, okay.

Speaker 1  1:00:33  
And they are expanding around China. And again, the assumption is they're able to do it because it's not a big deal if they hurt people.

Speaker 2  1:00:41  
I see. I see. Yeah, because in this example, like the parallel this push was you sample like five in here and somehow explore in order to learn this whole thing, whereas the pool is more about I have already have a big China market so I can do a lot of things within this market. I don't need to go outside. So one is like going very deep into this one mark and product fit. Whereas like the other is, sample a lot around. Oh, sorry. Oh, I just wanted to ask for a V. Is it necessary to expand to every US cities?

Speaker 1  1:01:27  
No, but you want a broad base of them that have different environments, so you can test how it works in different things, or at least collecting data and logs that you can use later. So I very much think that it is the more if if we're calling an experiment opportunity. I think what that translates to me too is you have time to build the right thing and you have money. And the more of those that you have, the more you're going to be willing to increase your market change speed, and that's going to change your product in some ways in that you're going to build different features on it, but you're going to be able to explore different markets and see what it is and fundamentally the product that actually the product that you're selling. is I give a ride from here to here. Yeah. The features underlying it that are needed to address that market aren't the product right there the non recurring engineering work for that market, but they're not like the product itself is very fixed.

Unknown Speaker  1:02:29  
Sorry, I can the following um so you're trying to say that

Speaker 1  1:02:38  
I think very strongly more experiment. Opportunity means that you expand your market, you increase your market and you fix your product. I think that the less experiment opportunity you have, the more likely you are to fix your market and try and iterate your product to fit that market as quick as possible.

Speaker 2  1:03:00  
Yep, Yep, I agree. Do you think the our discussion between expansion versus pivoting also applies here? The more money you have, you're less likely to abandon the old ones.

Unknown Speaker  1:03:12  
Yeah. But even Yes, I think that that is true, but you may still abandon

Speaker 2  1:03:19  
the old ones at some point. Is there an example of abandoning in AV industry like so and Fornia way

Speaker 1  1:03:25  
MO Not? Well, within regions yes, there's some. You know, we used to have motion on when it was known as new economy had significant operations in Singapore and we're operating like actual commercial services in Singapore with drivers but merchant services and we've pivoted entirely out of that and focused on US markets. When I ask why we have less money and it costs money to run those things. And the Singapore market would take a lot of time to invest into because the laws are different and the road structure is different. Everybody drives on the opposite side of the road and it was easier to focus on the US. There's also a thing of timezones of I see you know, how much of your engineering core and everything else do you want 12 hours off, you know, how many midnight meetings do you want to take put on your people got it. But but the other example that I want to use is Waymo used to have a trucking division. They shut it down, okay, and they shut it down as far as anybody can tell. Because it was costing them a lot of money and alphabet started pulling the purse strings tighter and saying you don't have as much money to spend. So their experiment opportunity went down. And so they said we're going to focus on the core market, which is Robo taxi.

Speaker 2  1:04:52  
So that was an example of fixing product right, actually. All right. It's a little

Speaker 1  1:04:58  
eat well yeah, I guess the definition of product and market becomes hard for me. Like all of them are both of those have many dimensions but I think if you call the products like Robo taxi as a product, fucking as a product, and then mark it would be where are you going with those technologies Waymo technically cut both because, well, what Waymo really did was a cut product, when it last expansion. Opportunity. But when it gained expansion opportunity increased in both product and market.

Unknown Speaker  1:05:43  
So what was the potential market for the truck?

Speaker 1  1:05:48  
They were focused in Texas highways really at the time, but they were really going to try and expand it all around. But basically

Speaker 2  1:05:55  
said like a fleet. Not like Uber,

Speaker 1  1:05:59  
yeah. So when I say truck, I mean like 18 Wheeler. Oh, so the concept of most of the trucking places. You have depots, you know, right. By highways and short haul truckers will bring the delivery things that shipping containers to those depots and then you put it on your truck and it autonomously drives it to the next place. And then at the next place it gets unloaded and picked up by a short haul trucker again and basically replaced long haul truckers as an industry. Got it?

Speaker 2  1:06:41  
Yeah, your comment about this market and product has always been in my mind like it's just a good word like other peers is like demand and supply or need and solution. Do you think among those three candidates

Speaker 1  1:06:55  
we need in solution? I like because solution says how you're solving yeah and need says what you're solving so neat could be are you doing trucking or Robo taxi or are you doing in these areas? So need would cover all of those. And solution would say what technology am I building? Yeah, so it's tied to it. But I can invest a lot more than like, oh, I want to improve my performance in Boston. That's me investing in the market or I want to make my system able to go to Pittsburgh as well.

Speaker 2  1:07:28  
So the example of Waymo shutting down the trucking industry is that because I somehow thought the AV industry is underneath AV technology underneath is somehow similar. It maybe not.

Speaker 1  1:07:40  
So I've only ever worked on the robo taxi side. It seemed like it was but they clearly made some decision that they didn't want to do it and one that there's sort of two theories. One is they didn't think that they could get the product good enough in a reasonable amount of time. For truckling. The second is they couldn't get the market to buy into them because trucking companies still use fax machines. And like I have this super high tech thing, but I'm going to have to send the orders via fax is a really hard thing and it's a very slow moving. If I say like a good old boys industry, does that mean anything to you?

Speaker 2  1:08:24  
I think I know what you mean. But that's interesting because technology visibility is there but operational visibility is not there. So that's

Speaker 1  1:08:33  
why they fail right and getting these companies to accept and integrate with them and do that just wasn't happening even if it was a wise decision for them. There were lots of people whose jobs and whose power rested and not changing and so got it. They couldn't break in.

Speaker 2  1:08:53  
So I guess you prefer somehow like need and solution compared to market and product.

Speaker 1  1:09:01  
For the AV industry, I think it's a little bit easier

Speaker 1  1:09:10  
unless we want to obstruct and if if the case is that we say product is I sell a robo taxi or I sell level three technology or I sell trucking. Then you don't talk about what you're developing underneath. You're just saying that's what that is. And then market defines everything else if I'm going to build for Boston or San Francisco or Singapore or Seoul.

Speaker 2  1:09:37  
So the reason there is like a little not clear mapping is because product is both the function of need and solution. Yeah, because you have identified the need, the way I think about is is there's a concept called need and solution pair and there is a need and responsive solution somehow make this and that becomes a product and implementation of the need if a customer and implementation of a solution is the technology and product is like nowhere in here so but people use the product market fit so that's why I chose this word because they they are some like priors on what fit looks like. But I see like why you're confusing different parts. So I've been confused for a year.

Speaker 1  1:10:23  
Yeah, I don't envy you. This is

Speaker 2  1:10:27  
what I really hope to find a good word that I can communicate and get feedback on. So if you think of better work, please please let me know.

Speaker 1  1:10:38  
I think part of it is when you change market, you're often at least with tech often you're changing product. Well, I'm saying attack with robotics. Like in the robotic well. I'm trying to think of like Boston Dynamics is you know that they somewhat took the same product and brought it to like warehouse logistics and to security and other things. But now they're building specific products of what do you call it? Like there's a specific warehouse robot because they went into that market, but then they invested more into the depth of that of oh, I can make something that specifically helps with this stretch. Whereas the dogs works really well for security just as is.

Speaker 2  1:11:33  
I see. Yeah, so they evolved so that is why I mentioned previously changing the market will eventually change your product. Yeah. And but I don't know enough to say whether AV market is same as well because you mentioned that market is a mean to collect more data to develop the product.

Speaker 1  1:11:55  
It is in my view right now, eventually market is you know, a place that you're actually trying to sell things. It's just a very pessimistic point in the industry where we're not trying to get a product out really quick. We're trying to build things.

Speaker 2  1:12:10  
Yeah, that was quite new to me. I haven't seen any industry like that. Weather like those cities are viewed as not as a customer but as places to collect new data. But that makes sense.

Speaker 1  1:12:22  
I mean, we do eventually want customers they're like we're not ignoring that. It's,

Speaker 2  1:12:28  
I mean, yeah, you're right because the reason you want to adapt to that situation is there are potential markets,

Speaker 1  1:12:34  
right? And part of that is our risk and our expansion opportunity are lower right now because it's a cash strapped time. Which has, sorry, experiment opportunity and risk to me are the same thing. What differentiates

Speaker 2  1:12:50  
them? Oh, so this is from a simulation model where I know this would add some complexity, but basically what it's doing is at every episode, it chooses either product pivot or the market pivot and the way they do it is they have some high bar and low bar and they have a state of a cache. And if your say like, say for example in here, I will invest in this Evie and rural market even though I get very low value review until I spent 20% of my cash versus another startup with saying no, I'm, I'm willing to spend like 80% of cash in here before moving. But that being said, this is a function of every other factors that I mentioned previously, because the more uncertain you are, the less likely you are to spend cash, but that is this is the only concept where every concept becomes monetized. If that makes sense. So, yeah, yeah. Okay. Not super cleanly. factorized but so

Speaker 1  1:14:08  
risk is I'm going to try and get money here and experiment is I'm going to find out what this area is like. For you repeat that. If you're saying risk, you're saying I am directly going to try to win this. I'm going to try and earn money or revenue here. Whereas experiment says, I'm going to find out what this area is like. My goal is not to make money. My goal is to learn

Speaker 2  1:14:34  
Yeah, learn landscape. Okay, that makes sense. That's a great distinction. Um, yeah, so I guess so the, you know, the concept of Blitzscaling No, it's a book by need Hoffman who want to I think, have the LinkedIn okay. But he said that, when the environment is very uncertain, you are somehow putting every resource in order to scale very fast and dominate the market. So that somehow seemed to me like you are willing to win in this market. So I'm putting all the cash in here in order to get some good review in the end so that I can scale up. That's why it's saying across the chasm. Is there an example for that in a movie or movie industry

Speaker 1  1:15:39  
freezes the example, Cruz said I'm going to expand as quick as possible. I'm going to be in as many cities as possible. And I'm going to try and get revenue as quick as possible. Although they had a lot of cash, but the problem was they had all that cash and it forced them to expand as quick as possible because they had to get to profitability.

Speaker 2  1:16:07  
So they were invested and they were pressured renter to get revenue,

Speaker 1  1:16:11  
right? And so they took high risks of they had zero acceptance in their strategy where they were like, we are okay. Hitting cars. We're not okay hitting people.

Unknown Speaker  1:16:24  
That's funny.

Speaker 1  1:16:25  
It's not literally there, okay, and in cars, but like that, they basically said we can never hit people. But we can cause other things. If we cause a traffic jam, that's fine if we cause whatever, they have high tolerance to do that because they wanted to expand very quickly. Versus like way Moe doesn't actually take risks. And I guess the ironic part is Waymo doesn't take risk because they have the cash, they can spend the money and it's okay.

Speaker 2  1:16:56  
But truth don't have as much investment. They're like incrementally.

Speaker 1  1:17:01  
Crews have the money. But the money came with a lot more strings. This is where it gets weird with the because there's so few players and like yeah, all of them. None of them are making profit. And so they all have different pressures from like, where it was announced Thursday. We are now majority owned by him by previously. He um die has taken us from you are going to get as like a commercially viable product as quick as possible to literally the order is like you can never hurt somebody because you're driving a Hyundai car around and we're not going to have one of our cars in the news. You go develop the technology and do it right. But you're never putting anything out that's unsafe.

Speaker 2  1:17:44  
So your proprietary PRI or T somehow changed

Speaker 1  1:17:47  
a lot right And previously, it was a 5050 between them and active and the push was much far from active like you're going to get a commercial product out as quick as possible. Find me the case with justifies that got it. But Gemini is very risk averse does not have interest in losing ever. So that's not true. They're they're not risk averse with their investment. They're willing to invest in difficult things. But they

Speaker 2  1:18:18  
are source of risks. Attention is different in

Speaker 1  1:18:23  
the news, right? They're not willing to risk their brand they're willing to risk their money and not their brand, whereas aptiv was willing to risk their brand more than their money.

Speaker 2  1:18:32  
Oh, so perhaps it's like I don't know how to put this risk and rent. I'll think about that about that. Thanks for bringing that up. Is a much bigger company than Oh Perhaps that's why right brand this like much are important for them.

Speaker 1  1:18:50  
And she and I sells cars to people like you can see them going by optive is an integrator that sells like half the cars that are going by have active parts in them but none of them are brand is active. You don't know after that maybe you you know most people don't know active

Speaker 2  1:19:06  
that's why startups can move very fast because they don't have friend that somehow

Speaker 1  1:19:11  
right there's no stress. There's nothing that they can lose. Worse comes they totally filter out and then you go try and you know, do it again with a different name.

Speaker 2  1:19:20  
Yeah, differently. I can they can change this to me. Okay,

Unknown Speaker  1:19:24  
it was very helpful. okay. It was very helpful.

Transcribed by https://otter.ai
