from https://link.springer.com/content/pdf/10.1007/BF02838887.pdf
- 🎞️: marginnote3app://note/E8CD1932-B727-4DD2-A176-7B9A71C75578

The selection has been made by Prof Mark Eberhart, Colorado School of Mines, .USA. Excerpts from A Search for Structure Selected Essays on Science, Art and History C S Smith 
# Nature of Materials Science 
Even in the field where he was once supreme because he alone could make or build, the engineer is currently losing status to the scientist. Personally, I think this is temporary, partly because many people who are called scientists are simply users of computers with no more understanding than the old unimaginative users of engineering handbooks, but more because I see in materials engineering the germ of a new and broader kind of science, an attitude of mind, a method and a framework of knowledge applicable to many areas. The materials engineer, no longer the specialized smelter of ferrous or nonferrous metals, is now beginning to look at all materials competitively or rather comparatively. He is as likely to be interested in ceramics and synthetic organic polymers as he is in metals. His job is to find, to invent, and (or) to produce materials having the particular combination of properties (mechanical magnetic, optical, electrical, and others, including economic) that is needed for a given service. The materials engineer's complex knowledge of what it is possible to achieve, involves him in the very RESONANCE J June 2006 center of discussion of most new projects, whether scientific, engineering, or social in nature. The materials scientist has in large degree recaptured in more definite form many of the discarded intuitions of the past. He has returned to a direct and intimate concern with the qualities that fascinated man from the beginning, and the explanation of these properties is now seen to depend directly upon structure, that is, form. But significant structure is a mixture of perfection and imperfection. The imperfect aggregates are, on one scale or another, not much different from some of the aggregates that were postulated with undisciplined enthusiasm by the Cartesians. Phlogiston, which the chemists had to discard as an inadequate compositional reason for the difference between a calx and a metal, has become the quantum theorists' conduction-band electron, quite literally responsible for metallic qualities and in other associations for pretty nearly everything. The whole story of man's relation to materials involves the interaction between the simple and the complex, with all of the triumphs of science up to the present being in the direction of the atomistic (or at least simplistic) and all of the realities of matter being complex. The laws of science apply under definable circumscribed conditions. The transistor shows that simple things matching the mathematics can be made in practice, but most things that human beings deal with are complex systems that are the result of a long succession of single events recorded in the emergent structure but in combination are essentially uncomputable. In practice it is necessary, therefore, for what exists to be measured grossly, using mainly sensual experience to reveal the cooperative effect of innumerable factors that are computable only in isolation. The enormous success of the rigorous atomistic approach in the last three centuries has led us to expect continued illumination from the same approach. In the limited highenergy world below the atom it seems as if there are always particles below particles but nothing so fundamental lies in the realm of concern to us aggregate humans, where the need is, now, for the study of real complexity, not idealized simplicity. In every field except high-energy physics on one hand, and cosmology on the other, one hears the same. The immense understanding that has come from digging deeper to atomic explanations has been followed by a realization that this leaves out something essential. In its rapid advance, science has had to ignore the fact that a whole is more than the sum of its parts. aO RESONANCE I June 2006 Polanyi has strongly argued that biology is not reducible to physics and chemistry since the existing morphology of an organism, which provides the boundary conditions within which the physical or chemical laws operate, are physically and energetically indistinguishable from other no less probable morphologies that have not happened to come into existence. This argument is valid and applies equally to the much simpler aggregates of the materials engineer. Science now relates to the two extremes of elementary atomistic physical chemistry on one hand and averaging thermodynamics on the other. But why cannot science develop a new approach encompassing the whole range? I am not as pessimistic as Polanyi, for I see in the complex structure of any material - biological or geological, natural or artificial - a record of its history, a history of many individual events each of which did predictably follow physical principles. Nothing containing more than a few parts appears full panoplied, but it grows. And as it grows, the advancing interface leaves behind a pattern of structural perfection or imperfection, which is both a record of historical events and a framework within which future ones must occur. Deoxyribonucleic acid is simply a mechanism to save time in reaching higher levels of organization, though, of course, with severe limitation of possible structures. It is neither possible nor necessary to study all structures that might have existed, but there is need for studying more than a statistically averaged structure. Is there not possible an intermediate science using the structure that exists - important for no other reason than that it does exist both as a key to history and as a framework for continuing process? Hesitantly, in my ignorance, I predict the development of some new principles of hierarchy that will enable the effective resonance between molecule and organism to be explored: possibly the way to this may be pointed by the emerging science of materials, so incredibly simple beside biology but complex enough to demonstrate a kind of symbiosis between scales, the interwoven importance of both atoms and aggregates. Such things can be appreciated and understood only by a parallel aggregation of viewpoints, one intellectual, atomistic, simple and certain, the other based on an enjoyment ofgrosser forms and qualities, but somehow the two must join as they do in matter. A few men will be in touch with both levels, but human capacities are such that most must specialize, and the liaison man will be far more important than he has been in the past when the greatest intellectual opportunities lay at the frontier. The scientist need not despair. He must become a little more of a whole man. He must restore his senses to a position of respect, though not in domination over his intellect, for each must RESONANCE I June 2006 supply something lacking in the other. This approach would bring together fields that because of their special complexities have been unrelated; it would minimize the difference between the scientist and those who try to understand the human experience. It would incorporate the historian's interest in the past as the basis of the present and the artist's feeling for the complicated interrelatedness of things. Encouraging diversity but controlling disruption, it would suggest more viable political structures. Using man's mind, hand, and eye in coordination, it would be a thoroughly human activity. This conclusion, if not perhaps some of the details of my historical approach to it, George Sarton would have approved. 
# Structure, Substructure, and Superstructure 
Anyone who works with the microscope for an intellectual, or a practical purpose will frequently pause for a moment of sheer enjoyment of the patterns that he sees, for they have much in common with formal art. What follows is an attempt to extend into a more general field some views on the nature of organization and relationships that arose during many years of study of the microstructures of metals and alloys. In a landscape painting of the Far East, a rock in the foreground with cracks and crystalline texture is often echoed in a distant mountain with cliffs, chasms, wrinkles, and valleys; a tree may be related to a distant forest, or a turbulent and eddied stream to a distant tranquil pond. Each part with its own structure merges into a structure on a larger scale. Underlying structures are imagined as a necessary basis for the visible features. The connectivity of all is suggested by the branching treelike element of the design. Both separateness and continuity are interwoven, each necessary to the other and demonstrating the relationship between different features on a single scale and between units and aggregates on differing scales. There is an analogy between a work of art which suggests an interplay of dimensions and the real internal structure of a piece of metal or rock which results from physical interactions between the atoms and electrons composing it. The study of microstructure on the scale within the range of the optical microscope (dimensions between a micron and a millimeter) is a somewhat old-fashioned branch of science, and it still involves a high degree of empirical observation and deduction. Far more "highbrow" is the rigorous science and simple elegant mathematics of the ideal crystal lattice considered as point groups in space. The whole field of crystal structure, mathematically developed in the nineteenth century by Bravais, Federov, and Schoenflies, was experimentally opened up by von Laue and especially the Braggs in 82 RESONANCE I June 2006 1912-13, using the diffraction of X-rays to reveal and to measure the periodicities and symmetries in the arrangement of planes of atoms in crystals. But the mathematical physicist must simplify in order to get a manageable model, and although his concepts are of great beauty, they are austere in the extreme, and the more complicated crystal patterns observed by the metallurgist or geologist, being based on partly imperfect reality, often have a richer aesthetic content. Those who are concerned with structure on a superatomic scale find that there is more significance and interest in the imperfections in crystals than in the monotonous perfection of the crystal lattice itself. Like the biologist, the metallurgist is concerned with aggregates and assemblies in which repeated or extended irregularities in the arrangement of atoms become the basis of major structural features on a larger scale, eventually bridging the gap between the atom and things perceptible to human senses. The symmetry of crystals in relation to decorative ornament has been treated by many writers none better than by Weyl in his Symmetry (Princeton, 1952). The patterns of crystal imperfection are less commonly known, despite their prevalence and despite their relationship to so many aesthetically satisfying forms in which regularity and irregularity are intricately intertwined.

# Structural Hierarchy in Science, Art, and History
Introduction The author is a metallurgist. When, years ago, I became more than casually interested in the history of my profession, I searched the written records of the last eight centuries without even approaching the beginnings of important techniques, but eventually I found that the earliest evidence of knowledge of the nature and behavior of metals was provided by objects in art museums. Slowly I came to see that this was not a coincidence but a consequence of the very nature of discovery, for discovery derives from aesthetically motivated curiosity and is rarely a result of practical purposefulness. Also, having spent many years seeking quantitative formulations of the structure of metals and trying to understand the ways in which the structures change with composition and with treatment, and the ways in which structure relates to useful properties, I have slowly come to realize that the analytical quantitative approach that I had been taught to regard as the only respectable one for a scientist is insufficient. Analytical atomism is beyond doubt an essential requisite for the understanding of things, and the RESONANCE J June 2006 83 achievements of the sciences during the last four centuries must rank with the greatest achievements of man at any time: yet, granting this, one still must acknowledge that the richest aspects of any large and complicated system arise in factors that cannot be measured easily, if at all. For these, the artist's approach, uncertain though it inevitably is, seems to find and convey more meaning. Some of the biological and engineering sciences are finding more and more inspiration from the arts. It is important to note that the word "hierarchy" is used throughout this paper not in the sense of a rigid boss/ slave relationship, with control passing unidirectionally from top to bottom, hut even more as the inverse, for it is the interlock of the smaller parts that generates the larger overarching structures. My model is not the command tree of Figure 14.1 but is more like the self forming, locally diverse aggregate shown in the frontispiece. Though environment will strongly influence the behavior ofsmaU things within it, the environment itself comes from the interaction of individuals to produce ever-larger structural groupings. All things are interactive, both up and down the scale ofclumpings. Though the larger groups necessarily incorporate the smaller ones, the aspects of hierarchy here considered are far more than mere inclusion, just as they are more than mere addition or mere dissection. One of my colleagues at MIT has pointed out that, since most complex structures arise without control from above, [[off_def(bea)]] "anarchy" might be a better term than "hierarchy" for the subject of this paper. It would be good to avoid both terms for they are overloaded with political emotion, but I know of no better word than hierarchy to convey the idea of an interpenetrating sequence of structural levels. The author's experience with the hierarchy of structural changes associated with the hardening of bronze, steel, and duralumin may seem like poor qualification for writing 84 RESONANCE I June 2006 on the elusive subject of art, but I hope to show that it is not entirely irrelevant since style in a work of art is an aspect of its structure, and structures of all kinds have certain similarities regardless of what materials, objects, societies, or concepts they relate to. The differences, and the problems, come in the identification of the significant units and the manner in which hierarchical entities successively present themselves as the size of the aggregate increases and as the scale of resolution and the character of what can be perceived changes with the method of observation. The unique quality of a work of art depends on the manner in which its component parts are shaped and put together. It has style, but the style is unrecognizable except by comparison with other works having similar structure and overtones, an extension of an inevitable hierarchy. In chemistry, the characterization of a phase (whether crystalline or not) also depends on how the parts are put together and how this internal structure affects external contacts to build up materials on the scale at which we use them. Structure provides a universal metaphor: the apparent mixing of metaphors throughout in this article is not entirely due to carelessness! Everything involves structural hierarchy, an alternation of external and internal, homogeneity and heterogeneity. Externally perceived quality (property) is dependent upon internal structure: nothing can be understood without lookng not only at it in isolation on its own level but also at both its internal structure and the external relationships which simultaneously establish the larger structure and modify the smaller one. Most human misunderstanding arises less from differing points of view than from perceptions of different levels of significance. The world is a complex system, and our understanding of it comes, in science, from the matching of model structures with the physical structure of matter and, in art, from a perceived relationship between its physical structure and the levels of sensual and imaginative perception that are possible within the structure of our brain's workings. All is pattern matching, with the misfits, if they can interact, forming a superstructure of their own as in moire patterns or beat notes. Entity and Enitation Nothing is a thing by itself: it takes meaning, indeed existence, only as it interacts with something else. Once this is admitted, hierarchy becomes inevitable in all systems excepting only those that are completely ordered or completely disordered, for these have no levels between the units and the whole assembly. There are two unavoidable dissymmetries - moving upward, where the inner structure meets the surface of RESONANCE I June 2006 M whatever we are talking about, and moving downward, where it meets the surface of a part. The very fact that something is recognized as an entity means that it has associated with it a distinguishable response to external probing-in physical terms, some measurable property; in more general situations, some recognizable quality. The hierarchical alternation between an externally observable quality, property, or trait and an internal structure that gives rise to it occurs at all levels and applies to all things. The interface, being both separation and junction, is always Janus-faced - that which is characterized as an entity is in some way more closely connected within than without. To define an entity, to separate it from the rest of the world, the interface closes upon itself, and hence, in sum but not necessarily everywhere, is concave inwards; connections converge and tighten inside, at the same time that they diverge and loosen outside it. Gertrude Stein once remarked that identity, based upon interaction, was much more interesting than entity, which marks completeness. Moreover, as Alice's whiting said to the snail. "The further off from England the nearer is to France." Though all structures depend in the main on the repetition of relationships, there is always some hierarchical level in any natural, social, or aesthetic structure at which it can withstand the replacement of some of its parts by others. At what level are anomalies or misfits rejected, tolerated, or welcomed? In some structures the simple hierarchical concept of the whole selects and places the parts, leaving little possibility of interchange without destroying the whole. In others the parts rigidly fix the pattern but not the extent of the whole, as, for example, the lattices of hard polygons in a Moorish mosaic in which no random change is possible, except at the edges, without disruption though color remains a variable to be played with by adjustment and substitution within modules maintained at a higher level, as in pieces on the squares of a chess board, or atoms in alloy crystals. It is also common for misfits to compensate each other and to satisfy the balance of connectivities within larger modules. Thus pentagons, which when regular cannot fill space, do so when grouped in pairs to form quadrilaterals or in fours to compose hexagons (Figure 14.6). Any extended array, however irregular or lacking in symmetry it may be, can always be subdivided into space-filling groups within boundaries that connect in quadrilateral or hexagonal array. The scale at which this can happen is an index of the hierarchical nature of the system. The balance or imbalance of internal and external connections determines both identity and the possibility of extensive aggregation. 86 RESONANCE I June 2006 CLR 3C ) Figure 14.6 Space-tilling arrays of pentagons in hexagonal and quadrilateral tesselations meeting, respectively, at trivalent or quadnvalent vertices. When an extended array is viewed with decreasing resolution on larger and larger scale, the system becomes simplified by the merging of compatible connections, turning polygons into their duals (points with valence equal to the original number of sides) and groups of polygons into simpler polygons and eventually into points with the same residual valence. Thus up the hierarchical scale forever as local differences merge into global balance. Such requirements are very simple applications of Euler's law relating the numbers of 0-, 1-, 2-, and 3- dimensional features in a simply connected group ofpolyhedra. Being topological, this does not relate in any way to shape only to contacts and separations: but when they are combined with simple physical interactions, interesting geometric effects appear. Thus in a random soap froth in two dimensions (Figure 14.7), the necessity of compensating for cells having more than six sides with those having less than six is joined to the surface-tension requirement for minimum boundary length and junctions at 120 degrees. The cell walls therefore have to be curved, and they can be rendered stable only by pressure differences between adjacent bubbles. This, in turn, causes slow diffusion of gas from small bubbles into their larger neighbors and introduces perpetual instability. The limitations represented by Euler's law make it impossible to have extended simply connected aggregates of polygons in two dimensions with greater valence (number of neighbors) than six, or convex cells in three dimensions with more than fourteen: the number of neighbors needed to satisfy higher valencies cannot be assembled repetitively into a connected aggregate. However, a one-dimensional branching tree with no return loops can be of any extent and degree of complication. In three dimensions, such RESONANCE J June 2006 Figure 14.7 Soap bubbles in two-dimensional array. Since all corners are trivalent, the average bubble in a large aggregate must approximate six sides, and in an array of any size the departure from six is detectable by inspection of the boundary alone. In an isolated set such as (a), with all vertices threefold and with no dangling edges, then, if Pn is the number of polygons with n sides and E b the number of unshared edges constituting the boundary. 2(6- n)P, - E b = 6. Note that this is not the average but the sum of departures from hexagonality. Similarly, if a group of such polygons is excised from a larger array, as in (b), then s n)Po . E o - E,: 6. where E o and Ej are, respectively, the number of edges extending outward (severed) and inward from the boundary. Similar relations between internal and external connections apply in all systems, but they are only simple in two dimensions and when all vertices are restricted to the same valence. a tree can be externally superimposed on a two- or three-dimensional array to connect together any number of cells whatever. This, of course, is the basis of organism, for it provides a means of communication that transcends neighborhood: aggregation and communication are no longer limited to interactions only with, or via, nearest neighbors. The human mind similarly establishes relationships between parts of systems both internal and external to itself, which do not necessarily have any physical interconnection. Thought is supposedly a kind of trial of patterns of interconnection of neurons as they already exist within the brain and as they are modified by selective interaction of the structure of the whole body with the outer world via the senses of sight, sound, touch, taste, and smell. The distinction between an inorganic aggregate and a viable organization or organism lies partly in the fact that the latter contains an essentially one-dimensional treelike system maintaining communication to and from a center of some complexity. The 88 RESONANCE I June 2006 communication system being one dimensional, cannot maintain itself unless it is immersed in a threedimensional aggregate, but it often provides the means whereby the nature of the three-dimensional parts can be changed and their capacity for interaction with their neighbors thereby altered. Communication may be directed or broadcast, but there must be eventual feedback if the system is to be maintained. Without both tension and compression and the balance between them nothing could exist, for it would either expand to infinity or shrink to nothing. Though tension can be onedimensional, compression, as every engineer knows, has to be threedimensional if pressure is to be contained or buckling avoided. The number of restraints that are needed to prevent buckling is, indeed, a mark of the dimensionality of the system. The part in compression can be internal within a skin stressed in tension, as in a soap bubble, or it can be external, as in a tetrahedral framework of rods supporting four stretched wires meeting at a central point or in the more complicated "tensegrity" structures of Buckminster Fuller and his followers. Even the brain needs a three-dimensional structure underlying the sometimes twodimensional patterns of thought. A structural' entity is one in which tension and compression are internally self balanced. (Two dimensional systems can achieve stability in a three-dimensional world by the balance between centripetal and centrifugal forces, as in planetary systems, the bolas, or the spinning electron-though note that the electron cannot interact with anything else without the intervention of a photon having an internal quantized structure that is at least three dimensional.) Few entities are completely isolated, without some residual connections to other entitles comprising a larger aggregate within which either tension or compression or both form cell walls, simultaneously dividing and maintaining continuity. It is the stability of an overarching three-dimensional environment that allows special freedoms and local structures-for example, the holding of feebly bonded atoms within the chelated structure of some molecules, the tolerance of a crystal lattice for vacancies, dislocations, and substitutional atoms, and, most important of all, the balanced interlocking of separable molecules with homopolar bonds, hydrogen bonds, and van der Waals bonds that lies at the basis of biological replication. In solids, the bonds between atoms may be as sharply directed as the covalent bonds between tetrahedral carbon atoms in diamond, as specifically neighborly as in an ionic crystal, or as regionally compensating as in a metal. RESONANCE I June 2006 89 On Arts Inovation and Technology Nearly everyone believes, falsely, that technology is applied science. It is becoming so, and rapidly, but through most of history science has arisen from problems posed for intellectual solution by the technician's more intimate experience of the behavior of matter and mechanisms. Technology is more closely related to art than to science-not only materially, because art must somehow involve the selection and manipulation of matter, but conceptually as well, because the technologist, like the artist, must work with many unanalyzable complexities. Another popular misunderstanding today is the belief that technology is inherently ugly and unpleasant, whereas a moment's reflection will show that technology underlies innumerable delightful experiences as well as the greatest art, whether expressed in object, word, sound, or environment. Even less widely known, but important for what it tells of man and novelty, is the fact that historically the first discovery of useful materials, machines, or processes has almost always been in the decorative arts, and was not done for a perceived practical purpose. Necessity is not the mother of invention-only of improvement. A man desperately in search of a weapon or food is in no mood for discovery; he can only exploit what is already known to exist. Discovery requires aesthetically motivated curiosity, not logic, for new things can acquire validity only by interaction in an environment that has yet to be. Their origin is unpredictable. A new thing of any kind whatsoever begins as a local anomaly, a region of misfit within the preexisting structure. This first nucleus is indistinguishable from the few~fluctuations whose time has not yet come and the innumerable fluctuations, which the future will merely erase. Once growth from an effective nucleus is by the very type of interlock that at first, posed it: it has become the new orthodoxy In crystals undergoing transformation, a region having an interaction pattern suggesting the new structure, once it is big enough, grows by demanding and rewarding conformity. With ideas or with technical or social inventions, people eventually come accept the new as unthinkingly as they had at first opposed it, and they modify their lives, interactions, and investments accordingly. But growth too has its limits. Eventually the new structure will have grown to its proper size in relation to the things with which interacts, and a new balance must be established. The end of growth, like its beginnings is within a structure that is unpredictable advance. 90 RESONANCE J June 2006 The Shape of Universal History The "S" curve in figure 11.1 (adapted from a paper on the transformations of microstructure responsible for the hardening of steel) can be used to apply to the nucleation and growth of anything, really any "thing" that has recognizable identity and properties depending on the coherence of its parts. It reflects the underlying structural conflicts and balance between local and larger order and the movement of interfaces in response to new conditions of components, communication, cooperation, and conflict. Applied to the growth of either individual technologies or to the development of whole civilizations based upon interactive technologies, the "S" curve reflects origin in art, growth in social acceptance, and the eventual limitation of growth by interactions within a larger structure which is itself nucleated in the process. The conditions of beginning, development, and maturity are very different from each other. Though a computer program can duplicate such curves, it is only by looking at the whole hierarchical substructure and superstructure that intuitive understanding can be gamed. All stages involve a balance between local structure and overarching regional restraints. All change involves a catastrophic change of connections at some level while topological continuity is maintained, though perhaps with strain, at levels both above and below. Human history follows the same general principles of structural rearrangement as a phase change in a chemical system, though most teachers of history ignore the nucleating role of technology and concentrate on the social changes that are engendered by it, The transition from individual discovery and rare use of techniques to the point where they affect the environment of Everyman and the content and means of communication between people and peoples underlies virtually every great social or political change and every fundamental change in man's view of the world. Few general histories reflect this. An understanding the whole human experience is desperately needed in order that society can wisely decide what to develop and what to discourage. Technology needs to be seen in the perspective that humanists have traditionally applied to man's other activities. Personally, I believe that the life of a craftsman, indeed of any man making something to be enjoyed or used, is a fine example of what it is to be human: mind, eye, muscle, and hand interacting with the properties of matter to produce shapes reflecting the purposes and cultural values of his society, and sometimes extending them. The RESONANCE J June 2006 91 verbal records conventionally used by the historian reflect this very poorly indeed. Conversely, works of art, when seen at every level from the atom to the whole, provide excellent records of almost everything about man. Usually they are enjoyed for their outer form and symbolism alone, and appreciated as a statement of the artist's ideas on some aspect of the world, an expression of the forms and feelings that he selectively absorbed from the culture of which he was part. However, his work is also an object and as such a product of technology. Thus the famous bronze statue of Poseidon involves technology both submerged-in the emotional and cultural meanings carried by its glorious form, and also more tangibly in the actual operations of smelting, alloying, casting, and welding that produced it. The statue was cast in several parts by the lostwax process, and the parts were joined together by running in superheated molten metal of the same composition. The techniques had themselves developed through earlier non-Greek) history and they were to have an influence on ~he subsequent development of the Western world comparable, in my view, with that of Greek ideas in aesthetics and philosophy. Historians of science, while properly emphasizing the development of unifying concepts, commonly overlook the fact that thoughtful intima~ awareness of the properties of matter first occurred in the minds of people seeking effects to be used decoratively. Both Democritus's atoms and Aristotle's elemental qualities are expressions of what the philosophers could have observed on a stroll down Hephaestos Street, noting the changes in strength, plasticity, texture, and color produced by the treatment of materials as the artisans shaped things for their customers. Similarly the multivalent game tokens found in very early excavated sites in the Middle East as well as the space-filling interlock of features in decorative pattern must have some place in the earliest history of mathematics. Archaeologists and art historians, of course, long ago learned to interpret human experience from the evidence of artifact. But even they have concentrated upon iconographics and styles, on ideas external to the object, and only occasionally have the sought to understand the technical experience in its production. Yet in making a work of art, a man must select material having a "nature" that will conform to the large shapes that he wishes to impose upon it There is a continuous hie~:archy of interactions: the object stands at the very point where the structures and properties of matter resulting from forces between atoms are invisible interaction with man's ideas and purposes. An artist's work preserves a record of both-one in the outer form and decoration the other 92 RESONANCE J June 2006 Figure 11.1 Curve depicting the beginning growth, and maturity of anything whatever. Adapted from a paper on the hardening of steel, it is here used to show the beginnings of most branches of technology in the decorative arts, their industrial growth in response to a social demand, and their maturity in conflict and balance with ocher things. Both the beginning and the end depend on highly localized conditions and are unpredictable in detail. in the texture and color and fine contours that result from the interplay atomic, molecular, and crystalline forces. The texture continues downward into a rich microstructure: hierarchical patterns of atomic order and disorder that change in recognizable ways as matter is subjected to thermal and mechanical treatment in its compounding and shaping. Everything complicated must have had a history, and its internal structural features arise from its history and provide a specific record of it. One might call these structural details of memory "funeous," after the unfortunate character in Borges's story "Funes the Memorious" who remembered everything. The aim of respectable science through most of history has been to study afuneous details: it has been analytic, seeking the parts or ideally simplified wholes. Analysis, is of course, absolutely essential for understanding, but no synthesis based upon it can reproduce the funeous structures that provoked interest in the first place unless the essentials of their individual histories are repeated. History selects and biases statistics. The particular structures that do exist, however improbable they may be, must be given priority in man's studies. The messier sciences such as old-fashioned biology or my own metallurgy have always been concerned with complex structures, and they have emphasized the relation between real structure and properties, while the pure sciences have perforce avoided that which was structure sensitive, and hence funeous. At least until very recently. Now, however, the material sciences have merged with solid-state physics and are showing how to study real structure with a wholly new emphasis upon imperfections in atomic order. Dissymmetry rather than symmetry is seen to be the key to many marvelous new materials-though dissymmetry is invisible except in a matrix of symmetrical order. New methods capable of revealing the whole structure at all levels have been developed-thereby incidentally opening a new level of funeous record for study by historians. RESONANCE J June 2006