---
collection:
  - "[[Papers]]"
author_ids:
field:
  - 🐢inv
created: 2024-12-11
---

parts that includes #voyage

- Thomas Gladwin (1964) has written a brilliant article contrasting the method by which the Trukese navigate the open sea, with that by which Europeans navigate. He points out that the European navigator begins with a plan – a course – which he has charted according to certain universal principles, and he carries out his voyage by relating his every move to that plan. His effort throughout his voyage is directed to remaining “on course.” If unexpected events occur he must ﬁrst alter the plan, then respond accordingly. The Trukese navigator begins with an objective rather than a plan. He sets off toward the objective and responds to conditions as they arise in an ad hoc fashion. He utilizes information provided by the wind, the waves, the tide and current, the fauna, the stars, the clouds, the sound of the water on the side of the boat, and he steers accordingly. His effort is directed to doing whatever is necessary to reach the objective. If asked, he can point to his objective at any moment, but he cannot describe his course. (p.24)
   The subject of this book is the two alternative views of human intelligence and directed action represented here by the Trukese and the European navigator. 1 The European navigator exempliﬁes the prevailing cognitive science model of purposeful action, for reasons that are implicit in the ﬁnal sentence of the quote above. That is to say, while the Trukese navigator is hard pressed to tell us how he actually steers his course, the comparable account for the European seems to be already in hand, in the form of the very plan that is assumed to guide his actions. Although the objective of the Trukese navigator is clear from the outset, his actual course is contingent on unique circumstances that he cannot anticipate in advance. The plan of the European, in contrast, is derived from universal principles of navigation and is essentially independent of the exigencies of his particular situation. 
   Given these contrasting exemplars, there are at least three, quite different, implications that we might draw for the study of purposeful action. First, we might infer that there actually are different ways of acting that are favored differently across cultures. How to act purposefully is learned and subject to cultural variation. European culture favors abstract, analytic thinking, the ideal being to reason from general principles to particular instances. The Trukese, in contrast, having no such ideological commitments, learn a cumulative range of concrete, embodied responses, guided by the wisdom of memory and experience over years of actual voyages. In the pages that follow, however, I argue that all activity, even the most analytic, is fundamentally concrete and embodied. So although there must certainly be an important relationship between ideas about action and ways of acting, this ﬁrst interpretation of the navigation example stands in danger of confusing theory with practice.

- Like other linguistic representations, plans are efﬁcient formulations of situated actions. By abstracting uniformities across situations, plans allow us to bring past experience and projected outcomes to bear on our present actions. As efﬁcient formulations, however, the signiﬁcance of plans turns on their relation back to the unique circumstances and unarticulated practices of situated activities. A problem for an account of situated action, on this view, is to describe the processes by which efﬁcient representations are brought into productive interaction with particular actions in particular environments. A rich description of this process comes, for example, from research on Micronesian navigation reported by Edwin Hutchins (1983). 11 The natives of the Caroline Islands routinely embark on ocean-going canoe voyages that take them several days out of the sight of land. Western researchers traveling with them have found that at any time during the voyage the navigators can indicate the bearings of the port of departure, the target island, and other islands off to the side of the course they are steering, even though these may all be over the horizon and out of sight. They are able to do this and other feats of navigation that are simply impossible for a Western navigator without instruments. What Hutchins reports is that they maintain their course by substituting other environmental referents, that are accessible, for the inaccessible land. In particular, they follow a star path, selected with reference to a sidereal compass or star chart that forms a map between pairs of islands. To maintain their orientation to the star path at any given point in their voyage requires that they consult not only the stars, but also a rich set of changing environmental circumstances – the color of the water, the waves, winds and clouds, birds, and so forth – which through experience become interpretable for information about the relative position of the canoe. What is notable about Hutchins’s account of the resources of the Micronesian navigator is that nowhere is a preconceived plan in evidence. The basis for navigation seems to be, instead, local interactions with the environment. In this way, navigators maintain their orientation to the star path, which in turn is ﬁxed to the islands of origin and destination.