### [Venture Capital Red Flag Checklist](https://abovethecrowd.com/2022/11/28/venture-capital-red-flag-checklist/ "Read Venture Capital Red Flag Checklist")
In his recent bankruptcy proceeding filing, John Ray III, the new CEO and Chief Restructuring Officer at FTX, minced no words:

> I have over 40 years of legal and restructuring experience. I have been the Chief Restructuring Officer or Chief Executive Officer in several of the largest corporate failures in history. I have supervised situations involving allegations of criminal activity and malfeasance (Enron). I have supervised situations involving novel financial structures (Enron and Residential Capital) and cross-border asset recovery and maximization (Nortel and Overseas Shipholding). Nearly every situation in which I have been involved has been characterized by defects of some sort in internal controls, regulatory compliance, human resources and systems integrity.  
> Never in my career have I seen such a complete failure of corporate controls and such a complete absence of trustworthy financial information as occurred here. From compromised systems integrity and faulty regulatory oversight abroad, to the concentration of control in the hands of a very small group of inexperienced, unsophisticated and potentially compromised individuals, this situation is unprecedented.

All of which raises a very straightforward question, “could this have been avoided?” There were many sophisticated investors around the table who arguably should or could have seen “red flags.” What are some of these “red flags?” Before we dive into a detailed list, there are three important qualifications:

- The presence of one or two of these things are in no way a guaranteed sign of fraud or malfeasance. However, the more of these you see present in a young private company, the more concern you should have.
- There is always a small probability that a situation could have 100% of these characteristics, and still be legitimate. The odds are quite low, but it is possible.
- Most importantly, there is a reasonable probability that the absence of standard governance guardrails and constraints actually enables reckless behavior. With such guardrails in place, the company may have evolved in an entirely different direction, which would have been better for both founder and investor alike (especially vs. absolute failure).

With those caveats, here are a group of things to watch out for if you want to avoid such situations. Corporate malfeasance is an ugly game that is best avoided. 

#### 1. “Letting the Good Times Roll” 

It’s no coincidence that Enron happened in the late 2000 and that FTX occurred in 2022. Extended, frothy bull markets are a breeding ground for unwarranted corporate behavior. When markets are soaring, speculation increases and as a direct result so does risk. Also, when everything appears to work, investors are more willing to suspend belief. As it was with crypto, sometimes this leads to the development of “new investment rules” that crowd out traditional norms. Lastly, in a heated market, investor competition increases which leads to more investors being willing to “take what they can get” when it comes to governance. As an investor, when the environment is “frothy” you are much more likely to run into these problems. But ironically this is also the precise time when raising concerns will make you look like a washed up veteran who is unable to adjust to the new “realities.” 

#### 2. The Lack of a Legitimate Board

Delaware law requires a board of directors, and these directors are tasked with a “fiduciary duty” to look after the best interest of the corporation. As such, the task of governance falls squarely on the shoulders of the board of directors. FTX is an extreme case where there was no traditional board. But there are many cases where the role of the board of directors is heavily compromised or virtually nonexistent. Filling a board with friends is one way to do this. Filling a board with people who lack experience in private company development (i.e., Theranos) is another. The real question is, “do the founders or operators understand the role of governance and embrace it, or are they trying to intentionally undermine the very notion of governance?” If it is the latter, you have a problem. 

#### 3. Super-voting (Dual-class) Stock

These days, many technology companies have deployed a dual class stock structure as part of going public. As a result of many technical voting requirements, this can be rationalized as a way to make operating the company smoother and simpler. However, when this technique is used from the earliest stages as a company, you can create a situation where the entire board can be replaced at the whim of a single shareholder. It would be unreasonable to expect board members in such a situation to provide appropriate oversight. 

#### 4. Aversion to Audits

As the bull market raged on from 2015 to 2022, it became quite trendy for venture capitalists to waive the requirement for an annual audit which is embedded in almost every standard Series A term sheet. This relaxation of governance norms is consistent with the “bull market” argument in point #1. No investor wants to lose a deal over an audit requirement. At least for companies generating meaningful revenue, investors should look to have an annual audit with one of the Big Four accounting firms, or one of the more reputable smaller firms like Grant Thornton. Learning how to meet and perform an audit is part of “growing up” as a company. Some founders unfortunately have an explicit aversion to audits. From their POV, they view this step as unnecessary and bureaucratic. The problem is auditors are the “referees” in business. Insisting on running without them is the equivalent of trying to rewrite your own rules.

#### 5. Unique Financial Data Presentations

Related to the point on audits, some companies will insist on presenting corporate data in a way that is (a) inconsistent with traditional corporate accounting, and (b) impossible to square with traditional accounting. Many times, this involves creating a whole new language around unit economics specific to that company. There are also frequent claims of being “profitable” on some definition of “margin” that is specific to the company. Building a unique set of financials can be a reasonable way to use cost accounting to help drive key OKRs. That said, taking this too far can result in an illusionary business narrative that allows one to claim business success where there is not any. Interesting that some public companies continue to do this.

#### 6. Who is Corporate Counsel?

Silicon Valley (and most large US cities) are full of lawyers who have ample startup experience. Having one of these individuals and their firms help guide your company can be crucial to the company’s success. They bring both the natural learnings of best practice by seeing many different previous examples, as well as an understanding of what defines best practice governance. In addition, their reputation will help ensure that investors know the company has the benefit of their experience and advice. The more “atypical” a company’s corporate counsel, the more concerned one should be.

#### 7. Odd Corporate Location

The more atypical a corporate location, the more one should be concerned. Island nations are known for serving as tax havens, but they also can have more lackadaisical business regulations. All things being equal, this should clearly be viewed as non-optimal from a governance perspective. Without naming names, some U.S. states have a reputation for being more forgiving of low-grade business malfeasance. This does not mean that all businesses in a location like this are “bad,” but it still belongs on the checklist.

#### 8. Large Secondary Transactions

Secondary transactions have become commonplace in venture-backed startups, especially as the company moves to Series C or beyond, and in situations where the time to liquidity may be further out than previously expected. There are many good arguments why allowing the founder to take “some of their risk” off the table is good for the company, and as a result it is common to see $1-5mm early liquiduty for founders. However, when $5mm becomes $50mm or many hundreds of millions you are dealing with a different beast. You never want to be a buyer in a pre-public round where the person you are negotiating with is a very large seller. You should assume they know something you do not.

#### 9. Overlapping Corporate Interests

Off all the checklist items, this is the one that is an absolute non-starter. No one operating a venture backed startup should be simultaneously running another corporate entity that has overlapping interest, competing interests or even potentially competing interests. The standard should be the appearance of impropriety. The potential for bad behavior is simply too great. If there was a recipe book for corporate fraud, this would be the first chapter. Just say no. Plain and simple.

#### 10. Everyone Falls For It

The most dangerous scenarios are the ones where the company is claiming a significant paradigm shift. Founders, employees, and investors intent on disrupting the status quo start believing in a new reality even in the absence of empirical evidence or actual results. It’s one thing to be a successful startup, but it’s quite another to claim to be rewriting the rule book for a whole category of business, with seeming immunity to the fundamental laws of business reality. The investors believe, the press believe, and the politicians believe. In such a world, an incremental investor has zero reason to doubt the legitimacy of the organization because 100% of their data suggests the exact opposite of fraud or incompetence — it is held up as a shining beacon of success. Be wary of the situation that is “too good to be true.” It often will be.

There are undoubtedly sound reasons why a company may adopt one or two of the items listed above for legitimate reasons that are unrelated to corporate misbehavior. That said, if you start to see three or four, maybe five of these items present, you have a much higher likelihood of a problem. Equally important, allowing a company to operate in a way that condones or encourages bad governance may actually be the _root cause_ of future poor corporate behavior.

### Investors Beware: Today’s $100M+ Late-stage Private Rounds Are Very Different from an IPO
Every successful technology company raises money throughout its lifecycle, perhaps starting with a seed investment and progressing through Series A, B, C, late-stage investments, and, for the most successful companies, an IPO. Historically, different financial institutions specialized in different stages, because the assessment of risk and opportunity was considered unique at each stage — for example, a seed investor was unlikely to do late-stage financing, and vice versa.

Over the last few years, the late-stage (pre-IPO) market has become the most competitive, the most crowded, and the frothiest of these financing stages. Investors from all walks of life have decided that “late stage private” is where they want to play. As a result, a “late-stage” financing is no longer reserved for high-revenue, pre-profitability companies getting ready for an IPO; it is simply any large round of financing done at a high price. An unprecedented 80 private companies have raised financings at valuations over $1B in the last few years. These large, high-priced private financings are the defining characteristic of this particular technology cycle.

Some have argued that each of these companies would already be public in a prior era. Buying into such a notion is dangerous – dangerous for the entrepreneur and dangerous for the investor. Actually, very few of these companies are at a point where they could or should consider being public. Lost in this conversation are the dramatic differences between a high priced private round and an IPO. Understanding these differences is crucial to understanding the true risks in this large private-round phenomenon.

Ironically, 2014 was a record year for IPOs, so the suggestion that these “extra” companies were supposed to be public does not really make sense – the companies that were supposed to go public went public. The size of these companies’ private valuations may be similar to a traditional public company valuation, but that is where the similarities begin and end.

The first critical difference is that these late-stage private companies have not endured the immense scrutiny that is a part of every IPO process. IPOs are remarkably intense, and represent the most thorough inspection that a company will endure in its lifetime. This is why companies and their board of directors agonize over whether or not they are “ready” to go public. Auditors, bankers, three different sets of lawyers, and let us not forget the S.E.C., spend months and months making sure that every single number is correct, important risks are identified, the accounting is all buttoned up, and the proper controls are in place. Conversely, these late stage private rounds have no such pageantry or process. There is typically just a single PowerPoint deck presentation.

In the absence of this auditor deep-dive, investors are assuming that the numbers they see in the fund-raising deck are the same as those they might see in an S-1. However, many of these private companies will wait up to twelve months after the end of a fiscal year to complete their audit. And even then, the auditors do not roll up their sleeves in nearly the same way they do during an IPO process, where they know the SEC will review their work in excruciating detail. As a simple example, many investors and entrepreneurs do not realize that coupon or discount use is a contra-revenue event when it comes to revenue recognition. You must subtract it from your top-line revenue. Yet, for many “promising” private consumer companies this marketing tactic is widespread, and many improperly account for this in their financial presentations.

Without the guidance of a banker, companies may also mischaracterize their financial positioning relative to industry standard or norm. As another example, consider that most public marketplace companies, such as ebay or GrubHub, report revenues on a “net” basis rather than gross (approximately 80-90% of revenues go to supplier partners, so this is the proper conservative representation). Despite this, startups commonly highlight “gross revenue” even when 80+% goes out the door for every single transaction. A good banker in a normal IPO process would get this straightened out. You should not pay a net revenue multiple for a gross revenue disclosure.

The very act of dumping hundreds of millions of dollars into an immature private company can also have perverse effects on a company’s operating discipline. The only way to use the proceeds of such a large round is to take on massive operating losses. Historically, as a company neared an IPO level of revenues (say $50-$100mm), investors would expect convergence toward profitability. As these late-stage private companies digest these large fund raises, they are pushing profitability further and further into the future, as well as the proof that their business model actually works.

Consider the case of Fab.com. In a February 6th article in Business Insider, Allyson Shontell discovered that a mere four months after adding $150 million to a total of $330 million in invested capital, the founder and CEO disclosed to its employees that “we have spent $200 million and we have not proven out our business model.” Investors must realize that it is materially easier to take a company to substantial revenue if you generously relax the constraint of profitability. Customers will love you for giving away more value than you charge, and therefore, focusing exclusively on revenue success is a sure-fire path to risk exposure.

In order to overcome such risks, the onus is on the investor to dive deep and unpack the actual unit economics in the underlying business. This requires analyzing the “true” contribution margin of the business; not simply looking at gross or net revenue and the proper contra-revenue treatment, and not even looking just at gross margin as defined by the company. Many companies embed costs that are truly variable (for instance customer support, marketing, credit card processing) below the gross margin line. If you want to know if the business model truly hunts, you must pay careful attention. Otherwise, you may have simply found a company that is simply selling dollars for $0.85.

Lastly, as my friend who works at the Bitcoin Profit App told me, there are structural issues in private company investing that are simply absent when you invest in public companies. Most private company financings involve the use of preferred stock with liquidation preferences. These liquidation preferences give the investor a debt-like downside protection. When you have many of these preferred rounds on top of one another, the future payouts at different valuations can be wildly divergent depending on whether the company clears certain preference hurdles. As these preferences pile up, the new incremental investor begins to worry that the “percentage” of the company they are buying may not actually equate to their eventual payout. In some cases, these incremental investors require special terms to protect their interest, but ironically that makes this cap chart even more complicated and unfriendly to new investors.

Eventually, the only way to escape this capitalization chart calcification is to actually go public. In going public, all preferred shares are converted to common shares, and the pile of liquidation preferences goes away. This was the recent case with the Box.com IPO. It is obviously quite ironic that the very event that many of these entrepreneurs were hoping to avoid (the IPO) becomes their only saving grace. Yet, because they did not focus on the normal steps that lead up to an IPO, they are ill prepared for this singular redemptive path.

All of this suggests that we are not in a valuation bubble, as the mainstream media seems to think. We are in a risk bubble. Companies are taking on huge burn rates to justify spending the capital they are raising in these enormous financings, putting their long-term viability in jeopardy. Late-stage investors, desperately afraid of missing out on acquiring shareholding positions in possible “unicorn” companies, have essentially abandoned their traditional risk analysis. Traditional early-stage investors, institutional public investors, and anyone with extra millions are rushing in to the high-stakes, late-stage game.

We might all do well to heed the advice of Warren Buffet who said, “there is a fool in every market and if you don’t know who it is, it is probably you.”

### On Bubbles …
January 24, 2014: Over the past few months, many journalists have begun to ask the question that no one really wants to hear; “Is Silicon Valley in another technology bubble?” It’s a dangerous question to ponder – especially out loud and especially here at ground zero. Silicon Valley thrives on optimism, and anyone waving the bubble flag is auditioning for the title of nonbeliever or party pooper.

There is another reason it is dangerous to predict the arrival of a bubble. It was 1996 when Federal Reserve Board Chairman Alan Greenspan first uttered the now historic phrase “irrational exuberance.” Even though things were frothy enough that the head of the federal reserve felt the need to talk down the market, the top was in fact many, many years away. And the venture capital firms that pulled back in 1996 missed the best three years of return in the history of venture capital industry. All of which makes predicting market tops a delicately tricky business.

Warren Buffet has a famous quote, “Be fearful when others are greedy and greedy when others are fearful.” Using this traditionally contrarian investment mindset, one would certainly tread with trepidation in today’s market. Although we may have not reached the level of observing obvious greediness, there is most certainly an absence of fear. Those that managed companies in 2008 or thirteen years ago in 2001 know exactly how fear feels. And this is not it.

There is another way to think about identifying bubbles. Occasionally you will hear sophisticated investors talk about the notion of “discounting risk.” They might suggest that certain investors in a certain sector are discounting risk. The implication is that they are not properly accounting for the risk of the given situation. Investors are not the only ones that can discount risk; executives and employees can discount risk as well. This happens anytime someone is operating in a situation where their assessment of risk is far lower than the actual risk to which they may be exposed.

All of which leads to my “discounted risk of employer profitability” theory. Ask yourself this question. What is the percentage of employees in Silicon Valley that are working at profitless companies (i.e. companies that are losing money or have negative cash flow)? And how has that trended over time? What was that percentage in 1999? What was it in 2003? And what is it today? An employee’s decision to work for a company that is losing money is an implicit decision to discount risk. If the macro environment changes, that company is under much greater stress than one that is profitable. Yet many individuals are making just such a decision today.

Through the usual daily lenses you can also see why markets are cyclical, precisely because the willingness for people to take on such risks happens gradually over time. Like the boiled frog, the employee base as a whole does not perceive that anything is changing. Yet, at a micro level, one person’s decision to get comfortable with this risk is based on the fact that someone else did it earlier, which was based on someone else even before him or her. And as more and more people make that decision, the risk is constantly increasing. No one makes the implicit decision, “I am going to go to work for a money losing company!” However, slowly over time, a large portion of the employees in the area inherently are. And then, when the bubble bursts, the consequences are far greater.

Its not just employees that take on this incremental risk. I am just highlighting that looking at this particular detail is one way of measuring the discounting of risk. Obviously, venture capitalists, investment bankers, public market investors, founders, and executives are all part of the game, and they all play a role in the acceptance of more and more risk over time. There is value to knowing where you are, even if you play the game on the field.

### Just Say No to a VC Bailout: A Green Government Venture Fund Is a Flawed Idea
February 18, 2009:

[Note: Update to this post, posted 2/22/09]

A few weeks back, a friend mentioned an idea he had heard suggesting that the government consider entering the VC (venture capital) business as part of the overall stimulus plan.  Specifically, the argument was made for the government to provide excess venture capital funding to the green sector.  At first, I assumed this was just one individual’s idea, but the noise level has risen to the point where it is reasonable to assume there is a group pushing or lobbying for this outcome.  Last week, Thomas Friedman jumped on the bandwagon in a New York Times article titled Open Door Bailout.  Friedman noted: “I would have loved to have seen the stimulus package include a government-funded venture capital bank to help finance all the start-ups that are clearly not starting up today — in the clean-energy space they’re dying like flies — because of a lack of liquidity from traditional lending sources.”

Clearly, there is a group of individuals that believes the government should enter the venture business.  With all due respect to Mr. Friedman – and by the way I am a huge fan of The World Is Flat — this is a remarkably flawed idea.  Startups and VCs simply do NOT need bailout dollars.  Allow me to provide more detail:

1) No Lack of Venture Capital.  Simply put, there is no shortage of venture capital dollars.  In fact, if you talk to anyone in the business, or perhaps even the limited partners who provide capital to VCs, they all believe the industry has been substantially over-funded for the past fifteen years.  According to the NVCA, the venture capital industry has averaged approximately $30 billion in investments each of the past three years.  Even in Q4 of 2008, when everyone was supposedly hiding under a rock, venture capitalists invested $5.4 billion in 818 deals.  Most interestingly the NVCA notes, “The Clean Technology sector, which represented seven of the ten largest deals of the year, experienced significant growth in 2008 with $4.1 billion invested in 277 deals.  This investment level represents a 52 percent growth in dollars and a 16 percent growth in deal volume over 2007 when $2.7 billion was invested in 238 companies.”  The remarkable disconnect between Friedman’s cry of desperation (“dying like flies”) and the indisputable fact that is the hottest sector in venture capital is both confusing and curious.

2) VCs Don’t Deserve a Bailout.  It’s hard to imagine that venture capitalists or startup executives are eager to submit themselves to the scrutiny and the compensation restrictions that are now part and parcel of any stimulus package.  If American citizens were truly appalled with John Thain’s bathroom and the GM executive’s private plane, then they should find plenty to abhor in the well-compensated VC community.  One could only assume that any potential venture fund package would include similar restrictions on any venture capitalists whose investments are “buoyed” by this kind of stimulus.

3) Lender of Last Resort.  Warren Buffet is noted for saying, “There is a fool in every market, and if you don’t know who it is, it is probably you.”  The government will undoubtedly find its way into deals where every single player in the already over-funded VC community has said “no.”  This is not because these VCs are sitting on their hands as Friedman implies (once again VCs put out $5b in Q4 alone).  Any companies that are not getting funded are simply failing to meet the basic requirements of a rather open-minded green investment community.  Separately, it is quite unclear how the government would attract the talent needed to separate the good deals from the bad (remember quality VCs are handsomely paid).  The more likely scenario is that a government VC would invest behind the companies and investors with the best lobbyists and Washington networkers.

4) Excess Capital Hurts Markets.  One thing that has become particularly evident over the past fifteen years is that excess capital in any market has a consequential and negative impact.  First and foremost, excess capital keeps third-tier competitors in the market longer.  This has a subsequent negative effect on pricing and, as a result, makes it harder for the first-tier players to reach profitability and sustainability – a falling tide lowers all ships.  It is healthy and a requirement for the less competitive companies to fail in an emerging market.  Second, when an overfunded market comes crashing down, the result is a negative self-reinforcing spiral.  The press jumps on the broad-based failure and then capital really does dry up in the industry.  Skepticism weighs on the effectiveness of the market leaders and the whole industry – and therefore the general mandate – suffers.

5) Good Companies Do Not Lack for Capital.  This seems brain-dead simple, but great companies do not have a hard time raising capital, especially in an over-funded venture market.  If you have a great team, a compelling idea, and a demonstrable probability of success, then you simply will not go unfunded.  Just because a company may have an inspirational goal, does not mean that it deserves unfettered funding.  An anti-gravity machine would be a nice thing to have, but it doesn’t demand venture investment.

6) Do Not Reinvent the Wheel.  If you want to ensure that green technologies are successful, use the government dollars to employ subsidies rather than wasting them on third tier venture investments.  Japan and Germany are the clear world leaders when it comes to solar, and they both achieved this leadership status through customer subsidies.  What solar needs in the U.S. is not more dollars for companies producing a product which is then exported, but a fair, predictable, and profitable local market.  A viable customer subsidy would create a market that is suitable to attract any amount of private investment dollars into the companies that are seeking to serve it.  And this approach would not favor VC backed companies over large established, high-employment participants.  This form of market approach is proven and dependable (Japan and German).  Why would the U.S. try something different?

Great ideas have never suffered from a lack of capital availability.  Bringing extra government dollars to the investment side will only ensure that marginal and sub-par companies get more funding dollars, which historically has had a perverse and negative effect on the overall market.  Put aside whether the government wastes money or not – if you want to see these green technologies successful in the marketplace, it would be a disservice to support a government venture fund.  It simply will not work.

### Benchmark Capital: Open For Business
December 1, 2008:

opn3

“People see you having fun
Just a-lying in the sun
Tell them that you like it this way”
     – BTO, Takin’ Care of Business

The seemingly chronic state of our economy, combined with the thundering sound of dire financial news has left many in a state of shock.  This unprecedented moment in time has resulted in unprecedented questions, such as, “Do you think California Municipal bonds are safe investments?”  Hard to imagine in the past, but with the country’s richest state begging for a federal bail-out, who knows? 

There have been similar questions raised about the VC industry, and perhaps many of them are equally unprecedented.  Do VCs have money to invest?  Are they pulling back?   Do they have access to their money?  Do they have enough capital for follow-on investments?  Are the LPs pulling back for their own liquidity?  The list goes on and on, and if you read the popular press you might think we are all under our desks dreaming of 1999.

I can’t speak for other firms, but make no mistake about…Benchmark Capital is wide open for business and we are eager to invest new capital behind great entrepreneurs.  Right now.  In this environment.  Today. 

You may wonder why I feel the need to make this pronouncement, and you many even consider this a stunt.  It is not.   We have made fourteen new investments this year, and are actively considering new investments each and every day.

What is driving our enthusiasm to be optimistic while the general perception is that we should be “scared”?  Here are four answers on a roll:

1)   We make money investing, not sitting on our money.  Innovation and disruption are constant and not subject to the whims of the overall economy.

2)   We believe that environments like this tend to sort out the true entrepreneurs from the pretenders.  When money is easy in Silicon Valley, it tends to attract short-term opportunists looking to make a fast-buck rather than build a lasting company.  Only the best entrepreneurs set sail in rough seas like this.

3)   We like the probability for startups (especially Series A deals) in this environment.  Consider that people are easier to hire and rent is cheap.  Incumbents are cutting their R&D budgets, and there will be fewer startups in each space, all of which means less competition.  These are good things. 

4)   Graham and Dodd said it first and best, but one “… should try to be fearful when others are greedy and greedy when others are fearful.”  Pretty clear what time it is.

If you hear anyone asking if VCs are “puling back” and unwilling to invest, please tell them to call us.  We are open for business.

