For many entrepreneurs, time is a key constraint. They need to invest time to achieve growth, but also lose time because of recurring crises. We develop a simple stochastic dynamic program to model how an entrepreneur should prioritize between improving processes to reduce crises versus harvesting revenue or ensuring future growth. We show that it is initially optimal to prioritize process improvement: an entrepreneur should strive for high process quality early in the venture’s growth process. We numerically analyze a simple heuristic derived from this optimal policy and identify the conditions under which it is (or is not) effective. It performs near optimally except when process quality or revenue rate may deteriorate too fast or when the cost of process improvement or revenue enhancement is too high. Our work provides a theoretical foundation for the advice found in the popular entrepreneurship and time management literature to invest time now to save time later.

Keywords: entrepreneurship; process improvement; time allocation; dynamic programming

[[2025-07-30|25-07-30-15]]

# 2. 🍶🥕🤠Literature Review의 유기밀당 스킬

1. 🍶유기적으로 네 단락을 시간과 자원할당이라는 키워드로 묶어냄

2. 🥕당기기 위해 (A related body of work is the literature on managerial time allocation; A related body of work is the literature on managerial time allocation) 공통점을 찾음

3. 🤠밀기 위해 다름을 채찍질함 (ur work differs from these studies in two ways. First, rather than determining how much time overall entrepreneurs should spend on their venture, we analyze how a given amount of time should be allocated among competing priorities. Second, we allow the entrepreneur to “create” future time by investing in process improvement.; Our work shares some of these elements, but we allow the entrepreneur to invest in process improvement. The key differences are that we focus on the investment of time, not money, and that we study process improvement in the context of entrepreneurship rather than production.) 을 잘 배합


> Literature Review Our work builds on several streams of literature. The entrepreneurial time allocation literature argues that having more time available is beneﬁcial for the venture’s success, but research in this vein usually treats the cost of that time simply as lost wages or reduced leisure time. Much of the work goes back to Becker (1965), who models how individuals allocate time between work and leisure. Hakansson (1971) describes how entrepreneurs should allocate money to various investment opportunities or consumption over their lifetime, but he does not view time as a scarce resource that needs to be allocated. Lévesque and MacCrimmon (1997) examine how an entrepreneur can choose to allocate time between a wage job and a new venture, where the latter’s success depends on how much time he or she invests in it. Several other studies explore how entrepreneurs allocate time between work and leisure via approaches that are analytical (Lévesque et al. 2002), empirical (McCarthy et al. 1990, Cooper et al. 1997), or experimental (Lévesque and Schade 2005, Burmeister-Lamp et al. 2012). Our work differs from these studies in two ways. First, rather than determining how much time overall entrepreneurs should spend on their venture, we analyze how a given amount of time should be allocated among competing priorities. Second, we allow the entrepreneur to “create” future time by investing in process improvement. A rare empirical study on entrepreneurs’ use of time is Mueller et al. (2012); their Table 1 summarizes earlier work that describes how entrepreneurs shift the focus of their attention between the venture’s start-up and growth stages. These authors observe six entrepreneurs in each stage over a period of four days; they then categorize the observed activities into several types but do not (as we do) differentiate between ﬁreﬁghting and development-oriented activities. A related body of work is the literature on managerial time allocation; this research goes back to Radner (1975) and Radner and Rothschild (1975), who model how managers should allocate time between various projects. Gifford (1992) provides a wide-ranging critique of this literature. In Seshadri and Shapira (2001), managers balance short-term maintenance activities (spending time on processes that deteriorate if left untended) and longer-term developmental activities (which aim to improve performance). These authors stipulate the proportion of time that managers should spend on both types of activity to maintain system stability; they also make numerical comparisons among various strategies for allocating attention. Our work shares some of these elements, but we allow the entrepreneur to invest in process improvement. There is some research in entrepreneurial operations that focuses on time, but it typically addresses timing decisions and not time allocation decisions. Babich and Sobel (2004) analyze the optimal timing of an initial public offering, and others examine variations on the theme of when a venture should switch its mode from exploration to exploitation. Armstrong and Lévesque (2002) characterize the optimal time to cease product development and release the product to market, and Choi et al. (2008) describe how the optimal time for switching from exploration to exploitation depends on the nature of the opportunity. Joglekar and Lévesque (2009) examine how allocation of funding to research and development (exploration) versus marketing (exploitation) should change over time. Lichtenstein et al. (2007) ﬁnd that the timing of start-up Downloaded from informs.org by [27.54.59.87] on 18 January 2024, at 14:11 . For personal use only, all rights reserved. Yoo, Corbett, and Roels: Time Allocation for Entrepreneurs Manufacturing & Service Operations Management 18(3), pp. 361–375, © 2016 INFORMS 363 activities affects the new ﬁrm’s likelihood of emerging successfully. This paper describes a gradual investment of time in process improvement to reduce the time spent ﬁghting ﬁres; hence, it is related to the vast literature on process improvement. Two seminal works are Fine (1988) and Fine and Porteus (1989), who study gradual reductions in setup cost and gradual improvements in process quality. The key differences are that we focus on the investment of time, not money, and that we study process improvement in the context of entrepreneurship rather than production.