#ProgrammingLanguages
To reason is to identify whether a statement is true or false. We will explore how to identify the truth value of a given logical expression under a precondition with formal logic.

TODO: clarify 'meaning'

### Propositional Logic
We can define the set of logical expressions, $f$, as the following:
$$
\begin{aligned}
f &\rightarrow T|F \\
& \ \ | \neg f \\
& \ \ | f \wedge f \\
& \ \ | f \vee f \\
& \ \ | f \rightarrow f
\end{aligned}
$$

In the introduction of PLT, I mentioned that we wished to explain semantics of programs by using mathematics. This is because mathematics is a language where its semantics is globally agreed on. We use the notation $[\![ f ]\!]$, that maps $f$ to its mathematical meaning. This separates the inductively defined logical expression, allowing us to infer its meaning sequentially. Using this notation, we can define the meaning of all rules for logical expressions:
$$
\begin{aligned}
\\
[\![ T ]\!] &= \mathrm{true} \\
[\![ F ]\!] &= \mathrm{false}
\end{aligned}
$$
The first two rules denote the universally accepted meaning of "true" and "false".
$$
[\![ \neg f ]\!] = \neg[\![ f ]\!]
$$
The second rule is the logical negation of the meaning of $f$.
$$
\begin{aligned}
\\
[\![ f_1 \wedge f_2 ]\!] &= [\![ f_1 ]\!] \ \mathrm{and} \ [\![ f_2 ]\!]\\
[\![ f_1 \vee f_2 ]\!] &= [\![ f_1 ]\!] \ \mathrm{or} \ [\![ f_2 ]\!]\\
[\![ f_1 \rightarrow f_2 ]\!] &= [\![ f_1 ]\!] \ \mathrm{implies} \ [\![ f_2 ]\!] \\
\end{aligned}
$$
The logical operators in $f$ also correspond to its respective operators in formal logic.

When we evaluate the meaning of some logical expression, we'll apply these evaluation rules to gradually reduce the meaning of the expression:
$$
\begin{aligned} \\
[\![ (T \wedge (T \vee F)) \rightarrow F]\!] &= [\![ T \wedge (T \vee F)]\!] \ \mathrm{implies} \ [\![ F ]\!] \\
&= ([\![ T ]\!] \ \mathrm{and} \ [\![ T \vee F ]\!]) \ \mathrm{implies} \ \mathrm{false} \\
&= (\mathrm{true} \ \mathrm{and} ([\![ T ]\!] \ \mathrm{or} \ [\![ F ]\!])) \mathrm{implies} \  \mathrm{false} \\
&= \text{(true and (true or false)) implies false} \\
&= \text{false}
\end{aligned}
$$

## Inference Rules
In the above example, we effectively "evaluated" the entire logical expression until it  gets reduced into true or false. In this section, we explore *inference rules*, which is used to find the logical value of an expression, without having to reduce the entire expression. If we know some logical expression holds true, how can we use that statement to imply another expression holds true? Inference rules enable such acts.

An inference rule consists of zero or more premisses and a single conclusion. An inference rule is *sound* if and only if, if its premisses are all valid, the conclusion is v alid.

Recall the "fractional notation" of sets from [[1. Inductive Definition]]. The inference rule $\frac{P_1 \ \ P_2}{C}$ can be read as, "If premise $P_1$ and $P_2$ are true, then conclusion $C$ is true."

We can write some laws of logic in the form if inference rules:

1. Modus Ponens
$$
\frac{p \quad p \rightarrow q}{q}
$$

2. Modus Tonens
$$
\frac{\neg q \quad p \rightarrow q}{\neg p}
$$

3. Hypothetical syllogism
$$
\frac{p \rightarrow q \qquad q \rightarrow r}{p \rightarrow r}
$$

4. Disjunctive syllogism
$$
\frac{p \vee q \quad \neg q}{p}
$$

5. Addition
$$
\frac{p}{p \vee q}
$$

6. Simplification
$$
\frac{p \wedge q}{p}
$$

Another way to write inference rules is through the turnstile symbol. For example, the rule of logical implication:

$$
\frac{\Gamma \vdash \mathrm{false}}{\Gamma \vdash f}
$$

You can interpret this as, "If $\Gamma \implies \text{false}$ is true, then $\Gamma \implies f$ is also true". We can observe by implication, $\Gamma \implies \text{false}$ being true means $\Gamma$ must be false. Therefore, for any logical expression $f$, $\Gamma \implies f$ will be true.

Any inference rule that consist of only a conclusion is called an *axiom schema*. For example,
$$
\frac{}{e_1 = e_0 \implies e_0 = e_1}
$$

By nesting inference rules in a form of a tree, we write proofs,  by chaining conclusions as premisses:

$$
\cfrac{\cfrac{\cfrac{}{x + 0 = x} \quad \cfrac{}{x + 0 = x \implies x = x + 0}}{x = x + 0}}{\forall x.x = x + 0}
$$

<sub>(I'm having trouble writing nested inference rules in MathJax. If anyone knows how to make the numerator and denominator in nested fractions the same font size, please let me know!)</sub>

### Soundness and completeness

An inference rule is *sound*, meaning for every instance of the rule, if the premisses are all valid, the conclusion is valid. Validity means that an assertion's semantic evaluation is true for any and all states it's evaluated under. I'll explain what a state does in the below example.

Example:
Let $p_0$ and $p_1$ be any assertions, and suppose the premisses of the corresponding inference rule are valid. Let $\sigma$ be any state, which maps some arbitrary variable to some value. Then, $[\![ p_0 ]\!] \sigma = \text{true}$ and $[\![ p_0 \implies p_1 ]\!] \sigma = \text{true}$. This means "under some state $\sigma$, which maps variables to some values, the meaning(semantic evaluation) of $p_0$ is true. Equally, $p_0 \implies p_1$ is also evaluated to be true". Since $[\![ p_0 \implies p_1 ]\!] \sigma$ is equal to $[\![ p_0 ]\!]\sigma \implies [\![ p_1 ]\!]\sigma$, we can see that this holds true. Since $[\![ p_0]\!]\sigma$ is true, $[\![ p_1 ]\!]\sigma$ must be true, regardless of whichever state $\sigma$ we evaluate its meaning under. Thus, $p_1$ is valid.

Since a variable's value may change throughout the course of a program, it is important that a premise for an inference rule must be valid. This ensures that an inference rule holds regardless of a program's state.

*Completeness* can be seen as the converse of soundness. A set of inference rules is said to be complete, if it can be used to prove every single valid assertion. In the context of validity described in this section, no finite set of inference rules is complete(Goedel's incompleteness theorem).

