#ProgrammingLanguages 

In [[3. Syntax]] we saw how syntax is described, that is, the "appearence" of programs. We will now explore how to describe "what" a program does, or in other words, its semantics.

## Denotational Semantics

The first method is to describe the process in which a program is executed. This is called *denotational semantics*. We denote the steps in which each parts of the program perform calculation with its mathematical equivalent.

The notation for defining semantic equations is written as the following:
$$
[\![ c ]\!]\sigma = \sigma'
$$
This is read as, "evaluating $c$ at (memory) state $\sigma$ results in state $\sigma'$".

Let's try defining assignments:

$$[\![ x := E ]\!]\sigma = [ \sigma \ | \ x:[\![ E ]\!]\sigma ]$$

We can see that the semantics of `x := e` is obviously equal to mapping the semantically evaluated value of expression `e` to variable `x` by updating the memory state.

Thus, semantics of commands can be viewed as a "state transformation", a function that maps a state $\sigma$ to another state $\sigma'$. 

But how can we be sure that a command will terminate? We have to take into account the possibility that a command running at some state may never terminate. Thus the functional declaration of the meaning of a command needs to be the following: 
$$f : \Sigma \rightarrow \Sigma \cup \{\bot \}$$

where $\Sigma$ is the set of all states, and $\bot$ representing non-termination. From now on, $\Sigma \cup \{\bot \}$ will be referred as $\Sigma_\bot$.

We can now write semantics for commands with this newly defined function. But there is one special command that requires special statement and stronger mathematical tools that I will discuss later.

- $\text{skip}$ command. No changes to program state.
$$
[\![ \text{skip} ]\!]\sigma = \sigma
$$

- sequential composition $c_0;c_1$. Executes $c_1$ after $c_0$. If $c_0$ never terminates, the entire command never terminates, regardless of $c_1$. To simplify notation, let $f_\bot$ for the function $f: \Sigma_\bot \rightarrow \Sigma_\bot$ be defined as the following:
$$
f_\bot \sigma = \text{if} \ \sigma = \bot \ \text{then} \ \bot \ \text{else} \ f\sigma.
$$
Then,
$$
[\![ c_0;c_1 ]\!]\sigma = ([\![ c_1 ]\!])_\bot([\![ c_0 ]\!] \sigma)
$$
This means, "If the state after running $c_0$ is $\bot$, then $c_0;c_1$'s executed state is $\bot$. Else the resulting state is the executed state of $c_1$ on $c_0$'s executed state."

- Conditionals 
$$
[\![ \text{if} \ b \ \text{then} \ c_0  \ \text{else} \ c_1]\!]\sigma = \text{if} \ [\![ b ]\!]_\text{boolean} \sigma \ \text{then} \ [\![ c_0 ]\!]\sigma \ \text{else} \ [\![ c_1 ]\!]\sigma
$$ 
The cool thing about this semantic equation is that only one of $c_0, c_1$ is executed, depending on $b$. For example: 
$$
\begin{aligned} \
[\![ \text{if} \ x &\neq 0 \ \text{then} \ x := x - 1  \ \text{else} \ y := y + x ]\!]\sigma \\
&= \text{if} \ [\![ x \neq 0 ]\!]_\text{boolean} \sigma \ \text{then} \ [\![ x := x - 1 ]\!]\sigma \ \text{else} \ [\![ y := y + x ]\!]\sigma \\
&= \text{if} \ \sigma x \neq 0 \ \text{then} \ [\sigma | x:\sigma x - 1] \ \text{else} \ [\sigma|y:\sigma y + \sigma x]
\end{aligned}
$$
(recall $\sigma v$ means the value of variable $v$ at state $\sigma$) 

- While loops, $\text{while} \ b \ \text{do} \ c$. This is the special command that's unable to be represented with state transforming functions. Let's explore why. We might attempt to rewrite $\text{while}$ with a conditional:
$$[\![\text{while} \ b \ \text{do} \ c]\!]\sigma$$
is equal to
$$[\![\text{if} \ b \ \text{then} \ (c; \text{while} \ b \ \text{do} \ c) \ \text{else} \ \text{skip}]\!]\sigma$$
Let's apply the semantic equations for conditionals, sequential composition, and skip to the RHS:
$$
[\![\text{while} \ b \ \text{do} \ c]\!]\sigma =
\ \text{if} [\![ b ]\!]_\text{boolean} \ \text{then} \ ([\![ \text{while} \ b \ \text{do} \ c ]\!])_\bot ([\![ c ]\!]\sigma) \ \text{else} \ \sigma
$$
The semantic equation of while commands include itself! This does not describe the meaning of $\text{while} \ b \ \text{do} \ c$ with just $b$ and $c$. This doesn't prove anything about what $[\![\text{while} \ b \ \text{do} \ c]\!]$ means, but instead, $[\![\text{while} \ b \ \text{do} \ c]\!]$ can be seen as the solution to the above equation.

We've stumbled upon a wall when trying to define semantics for while loops, which were not able to be defined with just state transformations. We need a special tool that can deal with sets of meanings(semantic domains). And that tool is called *Domain Theory*.

